
---PDF PAGE 1---


---PDF PAGE 2---
Advanced Education, Government of Alberta | Advanced Education 2024 -2025 Annual Report
©2025 Government of Alberta | Published: June 2025
ISBN 978-1-4601-6288-0
ISSN 2371-2104
This publication is issued under the Open Government Licence – Alberta
(http://open.alberta.ca/licence).
Note to Readers: Copies of the annual report are available on the Alberta Open Government Portal website,
at https://open.alberta.ca/publications/2371-2104





                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 3---
Table of Contents

Preface ................................       ................................  ...................................................................... 2

Minister’s Accountability Statement ....................................................................................... 3

Message from the Minister ................................                       ...................................................................... 4

Management’s Responsibility for Reporting ................................                                     ................................  .......... 6

Results Analysis ................................               ...................................................................................... 8

      Ministry Overview ................................................................                ................................  ................. 9

      Discussion and Analysis of Results .....................................................................................16

      Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology ..............................................................                                         62

Financial Information ..............................................................................................................67

      Reporting Entity and Method of Consolidation .....................................................................68

      Ministry Financial Highlights ................................................................                     ................................  69

      Supplemental Financial Information ................................                          ....................................................76

      Financial Statements of Other Reporting Entities ................................                                  ................................  81

      Other Financial Information ................................                    ................................  ................................  .96

Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports ................................                                            ........................   103

      Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act .................................................. 103

Appendix ................................................................             ................................  ...............................   104





























Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                    1

---PDF PAGE 4---
Introduction

Preface
The Public Accounts of Alberta are prepared in accordance with the Financial Administration Act and the
Sustainable Fiscal Planning and Reporting Act. The Public Accounts consist of the annual report of the
Government of Alberta and the annual reports of each ministry.
The 2024-25 Annual Report reflects the 2024-27 Ministry business plans, the Government of Alberta
Strategic Plan, as well as the ministry’s activities and accomplishments during the 2024-25 fiscal year, which
ended on March 31, 2025.
The Annual Report of the Government of Alberta contains Budget 2024 Key Results, the audited
Consolidated Financial Statements and Performance Results, which compares actual performance results to
desired results set out in the government’s strategic plan.
This annual report of the Ministry of Advanced Education contains the Minister’s Accountability Statement,
the ministry’s Financial Information and Results Analysis, a comparison of actual performance results to
desired results set out in the Ministry Business Plan. This ministry annual report also includes:
•    other financial information as required by the Financial Administration Act and Sustainable Fiscal Planning and
     Reporting Act, as separate reports, to the extent that the ministry has anything to report.
All Ministry Annual Reports should be considered along with the Government of Alberta Annual Report to
provide a complete overview of government’s commitment to openness, accountability, and fiscal
transparency.
















































2                                                                                     Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 5---
                                                                                                                    Introduction

Minister’s Accountability Statement
The ministry’s annual report for the year ended March 31, 2025, was prepared under my direction in
accordance with the Sustainable Fiscal Planning and Reporting Act and the government’s accounting policies. All
the government’s policy decisions as at June 3, 2025, with material economic or fiscal implications of which I
am aware have been considered in the preparation of this report.

Original signed by
Myles McDougall
Minister of Advanced Education
































































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                      3

---PDF PAGE 6---
Introduction

                                                  Message from the Minister
                                                  Under my predecessor as Minister of Advanced Education, the
                                                  Honourable Rajan Sawhney, the ministry continued to build strong
                                                  relationships with our partners in the post-secondary community,
                                                  industry, labour, the non-profit sector, and other areas of
                                                  government in 2024-25.
                                                  As in previous years, the Alberta 2030 strategy remained our guide
                                                  in 2024-25 in helping students to pursue rewarding careers in a
                                                  world and workforce where change seems to be the only constant.
                                                  Alberta’s government addressed those changing needs with
                                                  significant investments that will enhance Alberta’s world class
                                                  learning environments.
Budget 2024 maintained a stable base of funding, managed affordability for students, and continued support
for high-demand programs. There was increased funding for skilled trades and apprenticeship education, and
modernization of key apprenticeship programs, to help meet the needs of industry, and help Alberta students
make the most of available opportunities.
An important part of our work and how we prepare for the future growth of the student population is
through capital expenditures. In 2024-25, Advanced Education announced investments of $360.5 million for
capital projects over the three-year budget cycle. These crucial capital project investments included funding
for MacEwan University’s new School of Business, the NAIT Advanced Skills Centre, the W.J. Elliott
Expansion and Renewal project at Olds College, the CIM-TAC East Campus Expansion project at Red Deer
Polytechnic, the Multidisciplinary Hub at the University of Calgary, the Rural Medical Education Training
Centre at the University of Lethbridge, and the launch and expansion of the Bachelor of Aviation
Management program at Mount Royal University.
Inflationary pressures and the rising cost of living remained challenges last year. A cap of two per cent on
tuition increases, passed in Budget 2023, came into effect for the 2024-25 academic year. In 2024-25,
Advanced Education invested nearly $1.1 billion in student aid: $905 million for student loans to assist
108,100 students, $63 million in grants to support 18,100 students, and $101 million in scholarships and
awards to support 49,200 students.
Continued investment in programs to support accessibility and affordability in 2024-25 helped vulnerable
Albertans develop job-ready skills to build rewarding careers. The Community Adult Learning Program,
which provides literacy and foundational learning to Albertans received $21.1 million in Budget 2024.
Alberta’s apprenticeship registration in 2024-25 approached an all-time high, with more than 72,000
registered apprentices. This demanded a shared focus between apprenticeship education promotion and
delivery of classroom seats and programs. Last year, the ministry provided $76 million through the
Apprenticeship Learning Grant to 11 public post-secondary institutions to fund a total of 28,250
apprenticeship seats across Alberta.
Innovative steps to boost the profile of the skilled trades and apprenticeship education under the Trades and
Apprenticeship Promotion Plan saw the appointment of 12 skilled trades and apprenticeship “ambassadors”
aged 18 to 31. These engaging individuals promoted their educational and career pathways to Alberta youth at
live events and in online videos.
An advertising campaign called #WouldntTradeIt engaged with Albertans through video, radio, online and
public transit advertising, social media, and cultural community displays. The highly successful campaign






4                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 7---
                                                                                                                          Introduction


logged more than 24 million digital media impressions, and approximately 57 million radio and out-of-home
impressions in the Fall of 2024.
In April 2024, Advanced Education provided one year of funding valued at $350,000 to the International
Union of Operating Engineers to deliver apprenticeship training for mobile crane operators. This pilot was
the first time a union training centre received funding for apprenticeship training. In addition, a $900,000
investment was announced for the TELUS Spark Science Centre in Calgary to create exploration spaces for
young people to discover a career in the trades. Ultimately, as of March 31, 2025, there were 69,267
individuals registered in 72,857 apprenticeships, representing an increase of 14 per cent in 12 months.
In April 2024, Advanced Education and Alberta Health announced the establishment of new Rural Medical
Education Program Training Centres in Lethbridge and Grande Prairie. These new training centres will also
function as multi-disciplinary teaching clinics, to improve access to physicians for Albertans in rural and
remote areas.
In June 2024, Lethbridge College was redesignated as a polytechnic institution. Under its new brand and
mandate, Lethbridge Polytechnic will offer new and revamped certificate programs beginning in the Fall of
2025. Lethbridge Polytechnic joins Medicine Hat College, Red Crow College and the University of Lethbridge
in an enhanced array of post-secondary institutions in southern Alberta. For students, this broader spectrum
of learning opportunities in the region will reduce the necessity for long-distance travel and relocation.
Growth in Alberta’s private career college sector since 2019 brought increases in enrolment and financial
assistance applications—and a concerning increase in student complaints. Advanced Education performed
compliance inspections in 2024-25 with the aim of holding the sector accountable to legislative and licensing
obligations. In early 2025, the ministry launched a new online Private Career College Registry to increase
transparency on compliance issues and to allow students to compare programs across the sector.
Early in 2024, the Government of Canada announced changes to the international student program that
placed a new national cap on the number of international study permits. Advanced Education staff worked
diligently to ensure Alberta was the first jurisdiction to develop and implement a process to issue newly
required Provincial Attestation Letters.
The financial pressure exerted on post-secondary institutions by the federal government’s international
student policy changes led Advanced Education to convene an Expert Panel on Post-Secondary System
Funding and Alberta’s Competitiveness. Under the guidance of Dr. Jack Mintz, the panel will help to inform
future decision-making for the post-secondary system. In early 2025, the panel began examining funding
allocations, federal policy impacts, administrative and regulatory burdens, and the overall competitiveness of
Alberta’s post-secondary system. The panel’s mandate is to issue a report in the summer of 2025 with
recommendations on funding mechanisms that will enable post-secondary institutions to achieve maximum
effectiveness and position the system to meet future challenges.

Original signed by
Myles McDougall
Minister of Advanced Education
















Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                             5

---PDF PAGE 8---
Introduction

Management’s Responsibility for Reporting
The Ministry of Advanced Education includes:
     •    The Department of Advanced Education,
     •    Public Post-secondary Institutions,
     •    Alberta Board of Skilled Trades,
     •    Campus Alberta Quality Council,
     •    Land Agent Advisory Committee,
     •    Minister’s Advisory Council on Higher Education and Skills,
     •    Premier’s Council on Skills,
     •    Skilled Trades Youth Ambassadors, and
     •    Expert Panel on Post-Secondary Institution Funding and Alberta’s Competitiveness
The executives of the individual entities within the ministry have the primary responsibility and accountability
for the respective entities. Collectively, the executives ensure the ministry complies with all relevant
legislation, regulations, and policies.
Ministry business plans, annual reports, performance results, and the supporting management information are
integral to the government’s fiscal and strategic plan, annual report, quarterly reports, and other financial and
performance reporting.
Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the accompanying ministry financial information and
performance results for the ministry rests with the Minister of Advanced Education. Under the direction of
the Minister, I oversee the preparation of the ministry’s annual report, which includes the financial
information, performance results on all objectives and initiatives identified in the Ministry Business Plan, and
performance results for all ministry-supported commitments that were included in the 2024-27 Government
of Alberta Strategic Plan. The financial information and performance results, out of necessity, include
amounts that are based on estimates and judgments. The financial information is prepared using the
government’s stated accounting policies, which are based on Canadian public sector accounting standards.
The performance measures are prepared in accordance with the following criteria:
     •    Reliable – information used in applying performance measure methodologies agrees with the
          underlying source data for the current and prior years’ results.
     •    Understandable – the performance measure methodologies and results are presented clearly.
     •    Comparable – the methodologies for performance measure preparation are applied consistently for
          the current and prior years’ results.
     •    Complete – outcomes, performance measures and related targets match those included in the
          ministry’s Budget 2024.
As Deputy Minister, in addition to program responsibilities, I am responsible for the ministry’s financial
administration and reporting functions. The ministry maintains systems of financial management and internal
control which give consideration to costs, benefits, and risks that are designed to:
     •    provide reasonable assurance that transactions are properly authorized, executed in accordance with
          prescribed legislation and regulations, and properly recorded so as to maintain accountability of
          public money,
     •    provide information to manage and report on performance,
     •    safeguard the assets and properties of the province under ministry administration,
     •    provide Executive Council, the President of Treasury Board and Minister of Finance, and the
          Minister of Advanced Education the information needed to fulfill their responsibilities, and






6                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 9---
                                                                                                                                Introduction


     •    facilitate preparation of Ministry business plans and annual reports required under the Sustainable
          Fiscal Planning and Reporting Act.
In fulfilling my responsibilities for the ministry, I have relied, as necessary, on the executives of the individual
entities within the ministry.

Original signed by
Shannon Marchand
Deputy Minister of Advanced Education
June 3, 2025
































































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                   7

---PDF PAGE 10---
Results Analysis

Results Analysis

     Ministry Overview ................................................................         ................................................. 9

           Organizational Structure ................................................................            ................................. 9

           Operational Overview ................................             ....................................................................10

           Advisory Boards, Councils, and Authorities ................................                       ...................................12

           Post-secondary Institutions by Institution Type ..............................................................                       13

           Key Highlights ................................................................................................       ...............14

     Discussion and Analysis of Results .....................................................................................16

           Actions that support the priorities of the Government of Alberta Strategic Plan                                         .............16

           Outcome One: Albertans have the education and skills required to secure rewarding
           careers in the current and future labour market to support a thriving economy and
           society ................................   ...........................................................................................17

           Outcome Two: Alberta’s high-quality adult learning system and professional regulatory
           environment attract, develop, and retain a skilled and talented workforce .....................50

     Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology ..............................................................                               62










































8                                                                                            Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 11---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis

Ministry Overview
Ministry Mandate
The Ministry of Advanced Education is responsible for empowering Albertans through an adult learning
system and professional regulatory environment that support an innovative and prosperous Alberta.                           The
ministry works closely with public post-secondary institutions, private providers, and community learning
providers to support adult learning, provide educational opportunities, and enhance the adult learning system.
To support affordability, the ministry provides financial supports to Albertans who are pursuing post-
secondary learning opportunities. It also delivers programs and policies ensuring Alberta remains a
destination of choice for skilled professionals, and a leader in apprenticeship education and trades
certification. Guided by the Alberta 2030: Building Skills for Jobs strategy, Advanced Education’s investment
in people, infrastructure, and research capacity enables the post-secondary sector to drive job creation,
innovation, and economic diversification. The ministry is also committed to removing barriers to
employment for highly skilled Canadian-certified professional workers in regulated occupations, and
Albertans with foreign credentials. It collaborates with partner ministries and stakeholders on initiatives to
encourage economic diversification, and grow the province’s talent pipeline with the skills, knowledge, and
competencies to support a prosperous society.
Organizational Structure


























* The Premier’s Council on Skills is accountable to the Premier through the Minister of Advanced Education.









Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                            9

---PDF PAGE 12---
Results Analysis


Operational Overview
Five divisions within the ministry carry out the work of the department:

Programs, Engagement and Innovation
The Programs, Engagement and Innovation division positions the department strategically for informed
decision-making, implementation, and program delivery. The division builds and maintains relationships with
key stakeholders including industry and employers, post-secondary institutions, Indigenous learning
providers, and student groups. The division designs and implements key initiatives such as targeted enrolment
expansion of post-secondary programs to meet workforce needs, work-integrated learning, micro-credentials,
the International Education Strategy, and enhancing student supports on campus. The division works with
Indigenous communities and learning providers to strengthen opportunities and supports for Indigenous
learners. This division provides oversight of efficient and effective program approval functions to enable
publicly funded post secondary institutions to meet student and labour-market demand. The division drives
digital strategy and continuous improvement of department information technology systems and leads system
innovations for programs and operations in support of learner access and pathways.

Private Career Colleges and Student Aid
The Private Career Colleges and Student Aid division is responsible for licensing private career colleges in
Alberta and ensuring compliance with both the Private Vocational Training Act and Private Vocational Training
Regulation. The division works closely with private career colleges to gather annual report data for key
performance indicators and conducts site visits and reviews to evaluate compliance. It also manages the
student complaints process and ensures adequate student protections are in place.
The division provides financial supports to students attending post-secondary programming to support
affordability and accessibility of post-secondary education for Albertans. It provides financial supports in the
form of student loans, grants, scholarships, awards, and bursaries. The division develops and delivers
provincial funding supports and administers the Canada Student Financial Assistance Program on behalf of
the Government of Canada.
The division supports private career college compliance reviews and audits, student aid compliance, suspected
fraud identification and review, designations of programs and institutions, and repayment rat                     e tracking.

Skilled Trades and Professions
The Skilled Trades and Professions division works to ensure Albertans can participate in adult learning
opportunities by providing financial assistance and supports to those who qualify to attend approved
foundational learning and skills development programs, and by supporting providers to deliver community
programming. The division also oversees strategic initiatives such as the expansion of the apprenticeship
learning model, grant management of program partners                , and modelling, monitoring, and reporting on
apprenticeship education seats. The division provides programs and policies for apprenticeship education and
trades certification in Alberta and supports to the Alberta Board of Skilled Trades. The division also develops
apprenticeship standards with industry and provides support services to apprentices and employers. These
supports include exam development and delivery, qualification review, and certification. The division
identifies fair and transparent registration practices for regulated professions, designated occupations, and
trades through the Fairness for Newcomers Office. The division is responsible for implementation of and
compliance with domestic trade agreements and Alberta’s labour mobility legislation, including pan-Canadian
collaboration to streamline processes, and reduce barriers to credential recognition and registration for
professionals coming to work in Alberta. The division also supports professional regulatory organizations and
professional associations seeking to become professional regulatory organizations, as well as the recruitment,
training, and support to public members serving on these organizations.



10                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 13---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


Strategic and Business Services
The Strategic and Business Services division provides leadership and coordination for all aspects of the policy
development cycle, intergovernmental relations, and governance and legislative services, including providing
secretariat support to skills advisory councils, and the Expert Panel on Post-Secondary Institution Funding
and Alberta’s Competitiveness. The division is responsible for the collection, governance, and analysis of
post-secondary system data, measurement of system performance and outcomes, as well as research and
analysis to support decision-making by government and stakeholders. The division delivers the ministry’s
corporate services functions, which include coordinating Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy
requests, accommodations and facilities management, emergency management and business continuity
planning, as well as the development of the ministry’s business plan, annual report, and enterprise risk
management processes.

Financial Services
The Financial Services division provides strategic management and decision-making oversight of the finance
functions of the ministry and post-secondary system. This includes the development of budgets and forecasts,
payments and reconciliations, and financial reporting, including the consolidation of 21 public post-secondary
institutions. In addition, the division manages the ministry’s capital planning for public post-secondary
institutions, working with stakeholders to maximize the value of capital investment and maintenance budgets.
The division supports increased access to post-secondary education through facilitating federal support for
French language policy and programming and managing operating grants and interprovincial agreements to
share capacity for health care programming among provinces. Through multiple mechanisms, including
Investment Management Agreements with public post-secondary institutions, financial analysis, and policy
and system management, the division works to achieve the ministry’s goals, while managing risk and fostering
relationships with stakeholders.









































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           11

---PDF PAGE 14---
Results Analysis


Advisory Boards, Councils, and Authorities

Campus Alberta Quality Council
The Campus Alberta Quality Council is an arms-length quality assurance agency that reviews and
recommends Alberta degree programs to the Minister of Advanced Education for approval. The Campus
Alberta Quality Council also monitors degree programs to ensure they continue to meet its standards.

Minister’s Advisory Council on Higher Education and Skills
The Minister’s Advisory Council on Higher Education and Skills is responsible for advising the minister
about the direction of Alberta’s post-secondary system, including metrics for measuring performance, long-
term strategic goals, and any other matters as requested by the Minister of Advanced Education.

Alberta Board of Skilled Trades
The Alberta Board of Skilled Trades advises the minister on the direction of Alberta’s designated trades
certification system. The board’s responsibilities include promoting the designated trades and the value of
certification, consulting with industry on the standards and requirements for certification, which activities
within designated trades should only be performed by individuals who meet specific requirements, and what
those requirements should be (restricted activities). The board also makes recommendations to government
on which professions should be designated as trades in Alberta, and competencies that apprentices should
learn through apprenticeship education programs. It establishes details of designated trades, through board
orders, including the undertakings and activities that fall within a trade, the standards and requirements for
certification, out-of-province certifications recognized as equivalent to Alberta’s, and education o                  r training
outside of apprenticeship education programs t           hat meets some of the requirements for certification.

Land Agent Advisory Committee
The Land Agent Advisory Committee provides recommendations to the Minister of Advanced Education or
Registrar of Land Agents on matters related to land agent licensing              , including qualifications of applicants for
licences, standards of conduct for land agents, and other matters requested by the                  Minister or the Registrar.

Premier’s Council on Skills
The Premier’s Council on Skills helps facilitate input from select strategic industries and provides advice to
the Premier through the Minister of Advanced Education regarding the alignment of current and planned
future programming in Alberta’s adult learn          ing system with industry needs. This work helps more students
develop the job-ready skills they need to be successful in Alberta’s evolving economy.

Skilled Trades Youth Ambassadors
The Skilled Trades Youth Ambassadors provide a direct pathway for collaboration between Alberta’s
government and young adult apprentices of Alberta. This advisory council                   informs Alberta government
decisions by identifying challenges and opportunities for Alberta’s youth in skilled trades. Ambassadors
support the Minister of Advanced Education in championing skilled trades and apprenticeships.

Expert Panel on Post-Secondary Institution Funding and Alberta’s Competitiveness
The Expert Panel on Post       -Secondary Institution Funding and Alberta’s Competitiveness                 was established in
December 2024 to look at current and alternate post-secondary institution (PSI) funding mechanisms,
impacts of federal immigration policies on Alberta’s PSIs, the costs of the administrative and regulatory
burden on PSIs, and the overall competitiveness of Alberta’s post-secondary education system.




12                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 15---
                                                                                                              Results Analysis


Post-secondary Institutions by Institution Type
Public Post-secondary Institutions
   Comprehensive Academic                             Athabasca University
   Research Universities                              University of Alberta
                                                      University of Calgary
                                                      University of Lethbridge
   Undergraduate Universities                         Alberta University of the Arts
                                                      MacEwan University
                                                      Mount Royal University
   Polytechnic Institutions                           Lethbridge Polytechnic
                                                      Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
                                                      Northwestern Polytechnic
                                                      Red Deer Polytechnic
                                                      Southern Alberta Institute of Technology
   Comprehensive Community                            Bow Valley College
   Colleges                                           Keyano College
                                                      Lakeland College
                                                      Medicine Hat College
                                                      NorQuest College
                                                      Northern Lakes College
                                                      Olds College
                                                      Portage College
   Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity               Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity
Other Post-secondary Institutions
   Independent Academic Institutions                  Ambrose University
                                                      Burman University
                                                      Concordia University of Edmonton
                                                      MaKami College
                                                      St. Mary’s University
                                                      The King’s University
   First Nations Colleges                             Maskwacis Cultural College
                                                      Old Sun Community College
                                                      Red Crow Community College
                                                      University nuhelot’įne thaiyots’į nistameyimâkanak Blue Quills
                                                      Yellowhead Tribal College









Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                   13

---PDF PAGE 16---
Results Analysis


Key Highlights
The Ministry of Advanced Education focused on accomplishing two outcomes identified in the 2024-27
Ministry Business Plan:
Outcome 1:         Albertans have the education and skills required to secure rewarding careers in the current
                   and future labour market to support a thriving economy and society
Outcome 2:         Alberta’s high-quality adult learning system and professional regulatory environment attract,
                   develop, and retain a skilled and talented workforce
Key highlights and results achieved by the Ministry of Advanced Education in 2024-25 include:
Outcome 1: Albertans have the education and skills required to secure rewarding careers in the
current and future labour market to support a thriving economy and society
     •    Provided $2.1 billion in operational funding for post-secondary institutions to deliver educational
          programs through the Operating and Program Support Grants.
     •    Provided $76 million in 2024-25 through the Apprenticeship Learning Grant to 11 public post-
          secondary institutions, supplementing the Base Operating Grant to fund a total of 28,250
          apprenticeship classroom instruction seats across Alberta              (page 27)
     •    Invested approximately $1.1 billion to help Alberta students access post-secondary education. This
          includes approximately $905 million in student loans to help 108,100 students, while approximately
          $63 million in grants supported 18,100 students, and approximately $101 million in scholarships and
          awards to 49,200 students. (page 42)
     •    Investing approximately $376 million over four years (2023 to 2027) to increase the number of
          graduates from Alberta’s medical schools by 60 each year through new Rural Medical Education
          Program Training Centres in Grande Prairie and Lethbridge. (page 32)
     •    Invested $3.1 million in 2024-25 to support institutions to expand seats in mental-health related
          programs; this included year one funding of nearly $2 million as part of a three-year initiative, in
          addition to over $1.1 million in one-time funding. (page 34)
     •    Provided $70 million in 2024-25 for Targeted Enrolment Expansion funding to support 2,080 new
          enrolments in funded programs. (page 31)
     •    Provided Mount Royal University with $1.2 million in operational funding to support the
          development, launch, and expansion of its Bachelor of Aviation Management program. Additionally,
          Advanced Education invested $590,000 to the Air Access Bursary to support approximately 59
          students in pilot training programs. (page 32)
     •    Invested $1.1 million on a paid media campaign that ran from September 6 to November 17, 2024,
          to raise awareness on trades and apprenticeship programs and encourage more people to enter
          apprenticeship and the skilled trades. (page 23)
     •    Invested $116.7 million in capital projects to create modern learning environments                    , and
          $133.1 million for capital maintenance and renewal needs to ensure existing structures are safe and
          operating efficiently. (page 34)
     •    Established the Expert Panel on Post-Secondary Institution Funding and Alberta’s Competitiveness
          to look at current and alternate post-secondary institution funding mechanisms, impacts of federal
          immigration policies on Alberta’s institutions, the costs of the administrative and regulatory burden
          on institutions, and the overall competitiveness of Alberta’s post-secondary education system. (page
          18)











14                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 17---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


Outcome 2: Alberta’s high-quality adult learning system and professional regulatory environment
attract, develop, and retain a skilled and talented workforce
     •    Worked with the Southern Alberta Institute of Technology to establish the Alberta Bureau for
          International Education as a board-governed, not-for-profit organization that will work in
          partnership with Advanced Education and post-secondary institutions to continue growing Alberta’s
          international education sector. (page 53)
     •    Implemented the approach to managing the national cap on international student applications in
          Alberta, as well as a process for issuing Provincial Attestation Letters for all prospective                 international
          students. (page 56)
     •    Provided over $5 million to continue to support seat creation in new and existing bridging programs
          to assist internationally educated nurses with obtaining a nursing license to practice in Alberta’s
          health care system. (page 54)
     •    Passed the Professional Governance Act to consolidate and streamline Advanced Education’s
          professional governance legislation from nine separate acts into one, ensuring consistency in the
          regulation of professions, while remaining responsive to the unique needs and operations of each
          professional regulatory organization. (page 50)
     •    Hosted the annual Premier’s Summit on Fairness for Newcomers to bring together stakeholders
          from across Alberta to discuss actions to support newcomer success and drive economic growth.
          (page 52)
     •    Hosted the Promising Practices for Alberta Regulatory Bodies event which took place in Edmonton.
          During the annual conference, regulatory bodies in Alberta shared innovative ideas and best
          practices, particularly around streamlining registration processes. (page 51)
The Ministry of Advanced Education remains committed to regulatory approaches and program delivery that
reduces unnecessary government oversight and emphasizes outcomes, to improve access to government
services, attract investment, support innovation and competitiveness, and grow Alberta businesses.










































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           15

---PDF PAGE 18---
Results Analysis

Discussion and Analysis of Results

Actions that support the priorities of the Government of Alberta Strategic Plan



   Objective Two: Connecting Albertans to jobs
   The following results contributed to key priority one, objective two of the Government of Alberta
   Strategic Plan:
        •    Alberta 2030: Building Skills for Jobs strategy (page 17)
        •    Skilled Trades and Apprenticeship Education Act (page 25)
        •    Air Access Expansion (page 32)
        •    Targeted Enrolment Expansion (page 31)
        •    Alberta at Work (page 30)
        •    Work-Integrated Learning (page 30)
        •    Apprenticeship Expansion Grant (page 26)

   Objective Three: Strengthening economic activity and attracting investment
   The following results contributed to key priority one, objective three of the Government of Alberta
   Strategic Plan:
        •    Micro-credentials and Intellectual Property Commercialization (page 20)


   Objective One: Supporting a refocussed, effective health care system
   The following results contributed to key priority two, objective one of the Government of Alberta
   Strategic Plan:
         •    Physician Expansion (page 32)
         •    Internationally Educated Nurses (page 54)
         •    Registration pathways for Internationally Educated Nurses (page 55)

   Objective Three: Providing high-quality education and opportunities for skill
   development
   The following results contributed to key priority two, objective three of the Government of Alberta
   Strategic Plan:
        •    Alberta Student Aid (page 42)
        •    Mental Health Professions Enrolment Expansion (page 34)
        •    Post-Secondary Institutions Capital Projects (page 34)














16                                                                               Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 19---
                                                                                                                    Results Analysis


Outcome One: Albertans have the education and skills required to secure rewarding
careers in the current and future labour market to support a thriving economy and
society

Key Objectives

1.1       Implement initiatives under the Alberta 2030: Building Skills for Jobs strategy to
          transform the adult learning system and focus on providing the high                                -quality
          education, skills and training needed for Alberta’s future.

Alberta 2030: Building Skills for Jobs
The Alberta 2030: Building Skills for Jobs strategy was released in April               2021 and sets the direction for
Alberta’s higher education system to 2030. The strategy aims to               transform the adult learning system to focus
on providing the high-quality education, skills, and training needed for Alberta’s future                 . It is built around six
goals with clearly defined flagship initiatives to guide the post-secondary system in its vital role of advancing
Alberta’s prosperity by creating jobs, diversifying and building the             economy, developing, attracting and
retaining talent, and building partnerships between institutions and industry.
The Alberta 2030 strategy goals:
     1.   Improve Access and Student Experience: Ensure all Albertans have access to high-quality post-
          secondary opportunities, and that the student experience is coordinated and integrated.
     2.   Develop Skills for Jobs: Ensure every student has the skills, knowledge, and competencies to enjoy
          fulfilling lives and careers, and that they have greater transparency around labour market outcomes.
     3.   Support Innovation and Commercialization: Contribute to Alberta’s innovation capacity by
          supporting post-secondary research, and strengthening its commercialization potential to create new
          knowledge, develop future skills, and diversify the economy.
     4.   Strengthen Internationalization: Become a leading destination for top talent to drive the growth of
          skills, ideas, and innovations, locally and globally.
     5.   Improve Sustainability and Affordability: Provide institutions greater flexibility to generate own-
          source revenue and strengthen student aid.
     6.   Strengthen System Governance: Modernize governance of the system to increase collaboration
          and drive outcomes.
Implementation of the Alberta 2030 strategy is occurring in phases, with significant investments and systems
improvements made in 2024-25 to help achieve its vision and goals. Key actions in 2024-25 included the
following:
     •    Invested $3.1 million in 2024 to expand training opportunities for mental health professional spaces
          in Alberta’s post-secondary institutions. This investment supported 12 institutions in creating 761
          new seats in high-demand mental health programs and ensuring consistent high-quality services to
          communities across the province, while preparing a new generation of mental health professionals.
          (page 34)
     •    As part of Budget 2024, supported the development of skills and talent in the medical sector to
          address physician labour market shortages, particularly in rural areas. (page 32)
     •    Provided significant investment in building new learning spaces and expanding the number of
          programs and seats in higher education. (page 34)
     •    Improved affordability for Alberta’s students by capping tuition increases for domestic students at
          two per cent at most public post-secondary institutions, starting in the 2024-25 academic year.
          (page 18)





Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                          17

---PDF PAGE 20---
Results Analysis


     •    Established the Expert Panel on Post-Secondary Institution Funding and Alberta’s Competitiveness
          to review and evaluate post-secondary funding to ensure it is used efficiently and effectively.
          (page 18)
     •    Developed international education marketing materials used at signature events to encourage
          international students to enrol at Alberta’s post-secondary institutions. (page 53)
In 2024-25, Alberta continued to address skilled workforce shortages in critical sectors including health care,
skilled trades, and technology, requiring strategic investments in targeted enrolment expansion and
international credential recognition. To address challenges with affordability and inflation, Advanced
Education also prioritized initiatives supporting Goal 5 of the Alberta 2030 strategy to improve sustainability
and affordability, such as capping tuition increases for domestic students at two per cent and enhancing
student aid programs.

Cap on Domestic Tuition Increase
To enhance affordability for post-secondary students, and support Goal 5 of the Alberta 2030 strategy to
improve sustainability and affordability, government implemented a cap on tuition increases through
amendments to the Post-secondary Learning Act. As of the 2024-25 academic year, tuition increases for domestic
students in all public institutions, except for the Banff Centre, were capped at two per cent annually. In
2024-25, tuition increased by an average of 1.9 per cent at Alberta’s public post-secondary institutions, which
was substantially less than the five per cent average increase for the 2023-24 academic year. Despite the cap,
Alberta tuition remains comparable to the national average. Based on data from Statistics Canada, the average
tuition for a domestic student in an undergraduate degree program in Alberta was $374 above the national
average, while tuition for a domestic student in a graduate degree program in Alberta was $1,054 below the
national average.

Average Tuition Figures, 2024-25 Academic Year
                      Program Type                                Average Alberta Tuition             Average National Tuition

Domestic Undergraduate Degree                                                 $7,734                              $7,360

Domestic Graduate Degree                                                      $6,608                              $7,662

International Undergraduate Degree                                          $33,435                              $40,114

International Graduate Degree                                               $16,118                              $23,233

The implementation of the two per cent tuition cap was directly influenced by societal factors, particularly the
financial pressures faced by students due to rising inflation in food and housing costs. The decision reflects a
balance between addressing students’ affordability concerns, and acknowledging the financial stability needs
of institutions, which rely on tuition revenue. Balancing affordability for domestic students with the revenue
needs of post-secondary institutions presents an ongoing challenge.

Expert Panel on Post-Secondary Institution Funding and Alberta’s Competitiveness
In December 2024, the Expert Panel on Post-Secondary Institution Funding and Alberta’s Competitiveness
was established to look at current and alternate post-secondary institution funding mechanisms, impacts of
federal immigration policies on Alberta’s post-secondary institutions, the costs of the administrative and
regulatory burden on post-secondary institutions, and the overall competitiveness of Alberta’s post-secondary






18                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 21---
                                                                                                                      Results Analysis


education system. The panel will provide a report to the Minister in Fall 2025 with recommendations and
insights to help inform future decision-making regarding Alberta’s post-secondary system.

Investment Management Agreements
Investment Management Agreements are required under the Post-secondary Learning Act  and are the primary
accountability instrument to implement performance-based funding at post-secondary institutions in Alberta.
The agreements also support the Alberta 2030 strategy by incentivizing post-secondary institutions to expand
work-integrated learning opportunities, increase domestic enrolment, and advance innovation and research
commercialization. In 2024-25, the ministry continued to implement Investment Management Agreements
with 27 post-secondary institutions into the final year of the agreement’s three-year term (2022 to 2025).
Each year, Advanced Education assesses performance results against the targets set out in each post                         -
secondary institution’s agreement. If a post-secondary institution’s results fall outside the established target
band, its Base Operating Grant may be reduced in a subsequent fiscal year. The results for the 2023-24 year
were assessed, and all post-secondary institutions were notified of their performance metric outcomes. Most
post-secondary institutions achieved performance metric results within                  their approved target ranges, apart
from two institutions which had domestic enrolment results are below the pre-determined target ranges. As a
result, the 2025-26 Base Operating Grant for these two institutions will be reduced by approximately $15,000
each. The ministry will continue to review the metric results annually to assess progress toward the
Alberta 2030 strategy goals and determine whether funding adjustments are necessary.

Transfer System Improvements
The Alberta Transfer System is comprised of formal networks of post-secondary institutions, stakeholders,
and government that collaborates to recognize learners’ mobility pathways and prior learning through a
framework of system governance, data, and tools. The Alberta Transfer System improvements support
Goal 1 of the Alberta 2030 strategy to improving access and student experience. Learners benefit from
greater access to transfer and pathways data and information to support and inform their post-secondary
decision making.

Transfer Credit Awarded
Transfer Credit Awarded is the number of transfer credits awarded to students by member institutions (in the
Alberta Transfer System) for courses, blocks of courses, or credentials that students previously completed at
other institutions. It aims to address provincial data gaps in the transfer system by demonstrating what credit
students received, and pathways they accessed, when they moved to another institution. The latest provincial
data collection and results from 33 Alberta Transfer System member institutions indicated close to 500,000
transfer credits were awarded to over 16,750 students in 2022-23. This data includes transfer and prior
learning assessment, and recognition credit awarded to learners in Alberta, with results helping to identify
system data gaps and inform learner access to pathways.

Transfer Alberta Search Tool
The Transfer Alberta Search Tool is an online portal that allows learners to search institutions’ course and
program transfer decisions and high school to post-secondary courses for admissions and transfer. In
2024-25, the Transfer Alberta Search Tool included over 80,500 unique transfer decisions by Alberta Transfer
System post-secondary member institutions. Additionally, over 134,000 learners/users are accessing this data
through over 1.3 million page views annually. Apprenticeship education program credential transfer decisions
were also added to the search tool for the first time in 2024-25, supporting learner access to 64 transfer
pathways for transfer credit.






Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                            19

---PDF PAGE 22---
Results Analysis


Provincial Committees
Provincial committees are institution-led committees in specific subject areas (e.g., English, Dual Credit) that
collaborate with Advanced Education to foster post-secondary learner pathways and mobility for learners
(e.g., admissions and transfer). In 2024-25, the Apprenticeship Education Articulation Committee was
launched fostering apprenticeship education learner pathways and mobility in the transfer system. This
committee will support stakeholder collaboration, communication, and information sharing within the skilled
trades and apprenticeship education system in Alberta. In 2024-25, Advanced Education also supported the
expansion of stakeholder collaboration and provincial transfer system committees, such as Affiliated
Committee status for the Military Veteran & Family Connected Campus Consortium: Alberta Network. This
collaboration helps to support future development of post-secondary military credential pathways and credit
recognition.

Micro-credentials and Intellectual Property Commercialization
Intellectual property is essential for Alberta’s competitive edge and economic diversification, supporting
Goal 3 of the Alberta 2030 strategy to strengthen innovation and commercialization. In April 2023, Advanced
Education published the Final Report of the Research Commercialization Working Group (RCWG) which
recommended actions to increase research commercialization for post                   -secondary institutions and innovators.
PricewaterhouseCoopers was contracted to review Alberta’s intellectual property ecosystem and key learnings
from leading domestic and international jurisdictions. This review will inform the development of an IP
Commercialization and Monetization Framework.
In 2023-24, Advanced Education and the Ministry of Technology and Innovation launched a call for
proposals in support of intellectual property micro-credential programs created by post-secondary
institutions. Five successful proposals were selected to receive a total of $1 million in grant funding, including
the University of Alberta (three proposals), Athabasca University (one proposal), and Olds College (one
proposal). In 2024-25, successful recipients of this funding collaborated with partner post-secondary
institutions and industry partners to develop the micro-credential programs. These micro-credential programs
will provide Alberta learners access to five new courses across various intellectual property commercialization
topics, including Awareness of Agricultural Technology in IP Commercialization, IP for the New Innovator,
IP Strategy and Management, IP Forward Mindset – Recognition and Commercialization, and IP Protection
– Patentable and Non-Patentable Material.
Alberta’s approach to enhancing intellectual property commercialization aims to meet stakeholders’ needs and
advance Alberta’s global position in the new, knowledge-based economy. The grant funding also encourages
collaborations between post-secondary institutions and industry, ensuring a wide range of perspectives are
incorporated, minimizing duplication of efforts, aligning outcomes with real-world challenges, and lead to
future joint initiatives.

Private Career College Oversight
Since 2019, there has been significant growth in Alberta’s private career college sector, with unusually high
increases in student complaints, student enrolment, and financial assistance applications at some new private
career colleges. In 2024-25, the ministry took action to protect students by conducting compliance
inspections of these private career colleges and holding them accountable to legislative requirements and
licensing obligations.
The ministry conducted compliance reviews at 19 private career colleges identified as high risk, resulting in
the issuance of stop orders of 14 schools (no new students can be enrolled), suspension of one school’s
program licences (stopping all training and enrolment), and the cancellation of one school’s program licences
(the school can no longer provide vocational training in Alberta). In addition, four private career colleges had
their designations for student financial assistance revoked due to non-compliance.



20                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 23---
                                                                                                                      Results Analysis


To further control rapid growth in student financial assistance at private career colleges, the Alberta Student
Aid Program implemented several new policies, including:
     •    limiting student financial assistance for online programs,
     •    introducing an enrollment growth cap for all private career colleges, and
     •    restricting provincial funding for students who attend private career colleges outside of Alberta.
To increase transparency and provide the public with better access to information, the ministry launched a
new Private Career College Registry, which lists all licensed private vocational programs, their cost, duration,
and location. The registry also lists the current licensing status of each program: as either active, stop ordered,
or suspended. This new registry allows prospective students to compare programs and make informed
choices about their education, reducing the influence of educational recruiters and marketers.
A variety of improvements modernized the private vocational licensing system including the release of a new
online tool that streamlines the application process for existing licensees and improves application quality                       .
The ministry also transitioned to e-Services from paper cheques for licensee payments to enhance financial
oversight and launched a new automated reporting tool to track private career colleges’ financial securities
more effectively, which are collected to protect student tuition.

French Language Programming for Post-secondary Level
Advanced Education, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, coordinates federal funding to enhance
French-language education for both French minority-language (FML) and French second-language learners
(FSL), covering early childhood services to post-secondary education. The Protocol for Agreements for
Minority-Language Education and Second-Language Instruction from 2024-25 to 2027-28 was ratified in
November 2024 and lays the groundwork for ongoing federal-provincial collaboration. The ministry is a
signatory to the Canada-Alberta Agreement on Minority-Language Education and Second-Language
Instruction from 2024-25 to 2027-28. This agreement was ratified in March 2025, and formalizes the
continued support and funding.
The federal contribution represents flow-through funding, which is matched, at a minimum, by Alberta post-
secondary institutions.

Program Funding, 2024-25
      Provincial                  Federal             Total Contribution
     Contribution              Contribution
    $8.133 million             $7.570 million          $15.703 million

Infrastructure Funding, 2024-25
      Provincial                  Federal             Total Contribution
     Contribution              Contribution
    $1.430 million             $1.375 million            $2.805 million

This initiative, supported by federal funding and contributions from participating post-secondary institutions,
has contributed to greater inclusivity and flexibility in Alberta’s education system. It has also expanded
opportunities for Albertans to study in French, particularly through the growth of online and hybrid learning
options, resulting in increased access to French-language education, regardless of location. Additionally, it has
fostered the recruitment and retention of French teachers through bursaries and financial supports, and
enhanced professional development for educators, further strengthening Alberta’s Francophone culture and
identity. In 2023-24 (latest data available), the regular program funding provided to post-secondary





Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                            21

---PDF PAGE 24---
Results Analysis


institutions supported recruitment, bursaries, program updates, and professional development resulting in
maintained enrolment of over 2,200 students, 1,062 bursaries awarded, 21 FML and 29 FSL programs
offered, 42 FML and 93 FSL professional development programs delivered, and 244 publications, of which
236 were in French.
Through additional federal funding matched by the University of Alberta, the Campus Saint-Jean Stabilization
and Reinforcement project increased language instructors to 86 (67 full-time equivalent positions), expanded
French courses to 229, and raised practicum supervision by the Practicum Office to 26 per cent. Over the last
fiscal year, the Growing Capacity to Meet Teacher Demand project achieved a 100 per cent program
completion rate. Through infrastructure funding, Campus Saint-Jean was enhanced by providing modern
infrastructure in the form of digitally equipped classrooms, including the conversion of a section of the library
into two new high-tech classrooms, allowing them to reach learners beyond the physical campus. This
improvement fostered accessibility, interdisciplinary learning, and technological capacity. The infrastructure
funding will also create space efficiencies at Campus Saint-Jean which is expected to be completed by
February 2026.
Advanced Education will provide ongoing stakeholder support and chair the Official Languages in Education
Programs Post-Secondary Provincial Advisory Committee which advises on the direction of official language
programs to promote the vitality of Francophone education and French second                       -language programming in
Alberta. The committee is comprised of proportional representation from diverse geographical regions,
including Francophone regional authorities and second               -language school authorities, rural and urban           school
authorities, public and separate school authorities, and appropriate government departments                       .

Real Property Governance Act
The Real Property Governance Act      , which consolidates real property information of departments and
amalgamated entities into a centralized inventory system with the Ministry of Infrastructure, received Royal
Assent in May 2024. This Act will ensure that land and building sales across government are handled in a
uniform manner. The Ministry of Infrastructure retains the first right of refusal on post                   -secondary
institutions’ land disposition, subject to final regulations which are under development.

Provincial Priorities Act
The Provincial Priorities Act empowers the Government of Alberta to counter federal overreach by requiring
provincial entities to obtain approval before entering, amending, extending or renewing agreements with the
federal government. This legislation        , which was proclaimed in February           2025, ensures federal funding is
aligned with provincial priorities and not undermining the province’s jurisdiction.
In 2024-25, Advanced Education engaged post-secondary institutions to inform the development of
regulations under the Act that ensures Alberta’s post-secondary institutions maintain access to research and
other funding from the federal government, while safeguarding Alberta’s interests. All agreements between
federal entities and Alberta’s public post-secondary institutions are subject to the Act, and will be reported to
the provincial government, with the most agreements exempted by regulation from prior provincial approval.
The Act and regulation came into force on April 1, 2025.
















22                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 25---
                                                                                                                   Results Analysis


1.2       Expand and enhance a modern, flexible, and efficient skilled trades certification and
          apprenticeship education system in Alberta that meets the evolving needs of the
          economy.

Trades and Apprenticeship Promotion
In 2024-25, Advanced Education continued to advocate and champion opportunities in apprenticeship
programs in the skilled trades through a variety of initiatives. Attention focused on the K-12 education system
to ensure, as early as junior high, this education track has parity of esteem as a desirable education pathway
that will lead to a highly rewarding career.
In May 2024, the ministry appointed 12 youth ambassadors aged 18 to 31 in skilled trades and
apprenticeships to promote the apprenticeship educational and trades career pathways as highly desirable
opportunities for Alberta youth. The Ambassadors participated in 29 events between May 22, 2024, to
March 31, 2025. As part of this appointment, the ambassadors were also featured in eight videos promoting
the skilled trades that were published on the YourAlberta YouTube account, as well as the Government of
Alberta website.
In June 2024, the ministry also refreshed the look and feel of the tradesecrets.alberta.ca website that provides
comprehensive information to guide visitors through the apprenticeship education and skilled trades
certification system in Alberta. The website received 5.9 million page views from 964,225 unique visitors
between April 1, 2024, and March 26, 2025.
In September 2024, Advanced Education launched a successful advertising campaign called
#WouldntTradeIt. The campaign included several initiatives to encourage Albertans to learn more about
apprenticeship education and the skilled trades, including search engine marketing, social media ads, video
ads, radio ads, online displays, ethnocultural displays, and transit ads. The campaign’s impact exceeded
expectations, with ads viewed or displayed more than 24 million times between September 6, 2024, and
November 17, 2024. Eighty-five per cent of individuals surveyed indicated the ads made them feel positive
about trades and apprenticeship education. Advanced Education also supported celebrations surrounding
Apprenticeship Day, at 11 post-secondary institutions, to recognize and celebrate the value of apprenticeship
education, and the contributions of apprentices to Alberta. Additionally, the ministry hosted information
booths and delivered presentations at events such as the 2024 Calgary Stampede, Edmonton K-Days, and
teachers’ conventions across the province. During these events, ministry representatives had over 2,000
meaningful conversations with educators and the public.
In September 2024, the ministry launched the Youth Skills Network (YSN) as a way for young Albertans ages
14 to 29 to receive information about apprenticeship education and the skilled trades. YSN also allows young
Albertans to provide feedback on the direction of apprenticeship education from their unique perspective. As
of March 27, 2025, there were 112 members of the YSN. Advanced Education also provided $882,000 to
Calgary TELUS Spark to support the first two phases of its BLUprint (Build+Learn+You) skilled trades
exploration program. Between June and September 2024, 23,389 guests participated in phase one and two
programming.

High School Apprenticeship Programs and Scholarships
In 2024-25, Advanced Education awarded approximately $1 million in High School Apprentice and High
School Apprentice Bright Futures scholarships to nearly 950 students. The High School Apprenticeship
program recognizes the accomplishments of Alberta high school students completing the Registered
Apprenticeship Program (RAP) or the Career and Technology Studies pathway. The goal of the program is to
encourage more students to explore trades education as a path to well-paying professional jobs that will
provide financial stability and help meet future labour market demands. Many students participating in the





Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                         23

---PDF PAGE 26---
Results Analysis


program complete their technical training sooner, and become certified journeypersons faster, because of
their participation in the trades while in high school.
Allowing students to explore trades careers while “earning and learning” towards their future careers starting
in high school, sets students up for success as they enter post-secondary technical programs. Many high
schools in the province currently participate in the RAP program, and as the trades continue to be promoted
in Alberta, student awareness and participation in the RAP program will hopefully increase.

Apprenticeship Education Program Updates
Advanced Education reestablished updates to apprenticeship education programs with the modernization of
the first and second periods of the electrician program which launched in August 2024, with updates to the
third and fourth periods set for implementation in August 2025.
The government has allotted $20 million annually to update apprenticeship education programs in Alberta.
This money is used to update content in apprenticeship programs, purchase shop/lab equipment for trainers
to deliver the new content, upgrade facilities, develop new curriculum and train instructors to deliver the new
content. The long-term goal is to update programs representing 97.5 per cent of all registered apprentices by
2031.

Trade Pathways
The Alberta Construction Association’s (ACA) Trade Pathways program aims to develop both unemployed
young Albertans, and those from underrepresented groups, into apprentices and strengthen capacity in the
construction industry. The program targets unemployed youth workers to successfully build the skills needed
to permanently attach to the construction industry as a career, enabling more young Albertans to enter
construction-related apprenticeships, so that construction industry employers to experience fewer labour
shortages. In March 2022, Advanced Education provided $3.2 million to support the ACA’s Trade Pathways
pilot program that has surpassed its initial targets. In April 2023, Alberta’s government entered into a new
grant agreement with the ACA for an additional $3 million over three years to expand the programs beyond
Edmonton, and into other regions of the province.
As of March 31, 2025, Trade Pathways has enrolled 243 participants in the Edmonton region and 123
participants from other regions in the province. As labour market demand increases, the pool of employers
participating in the Trade Pathways program has grown from nine to 34 employers. The placement
completion rate continues at approximately 65 per cent, with 93 per cent of those hired permanently. Efforts
to recruit from marginalized and underrepresented groups are ongoing despite barriers such as construction
employers’ workforce fluctuations based on successful project bids. New trainees from underrepresented
groups lack sufficient training and experience from a single project to safely and productively attach to the
construction labour force, placing them at risk of unemployment. The Trade Pathway program seeks to
overcome this barrier by transferring trainees among a group of committed employers to ensure they are kept
employed throughout the program and can develop skills and experience on multiple projects to allow them
to successfully enter apprenticeship.

Youth Apprenticeship Connections Program
The Youth Apprenticeship Connections Program (YACP) pilot was developed collaboratively by the
Ministries of Children and Family Services and Advanced Education to deliver career exploration and
apprenticeship specialist coaching for youth in care and young adults formerly in care. The program provides
participants with exposure to over 50 designated trades in Alberta, offering career development opportunities,
coaching, and work experience. The goal is to help participants complete pre-apprenticeship programs
and/or their first period of apprenticeship education.





24                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 27---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


Launched on March 1, 2024, in Edmonton, Calgary, and central Alberta, the program enrolled 129 youths in
the first eight months. The program introduced innovative initiatives, including workshops addressing
barriers like mentorship and resilience, and successfully placed youth in pre-apprenticeship programs through
regional outreach. As of March 31, 2025, 78 participants were actively engaged in the program, with 68
engaged in skill-building activities, including foundational workshops, trades exploration, and industry-
specific information sessions. Four participants have successfully registered as apprentices with blue books in
hand and employer support.
The program’s hands-on approach has not only strengthened client relationships but also effectively removed
barriers to participation by delivering services directly to those in need. Advanced Education has committed
to providing an additional $1.5 million to the program in 2025-26, while Children and Family Services is
working with Prospect Human Services Society to expand the current services provided in the Edmonton-
Calgary corridor to participants across Alberta.

Implement and realize the Skilled Trades and Apprenticeship Education Act
The Skilled Trades and Apprenticeship Education Act (STAEA) came into force in 2022, enabling industries,
skilled trades professions, post-secondary institutions, and government to better respond to emerging needs
of the labour market. Implementation of the Act is a multi-year initiative that continued in the 2024-25 fiscal
year and will continue in the coming years.

Apprenticeship Learning Model Expansion
The apprenticeship learning model, where learners receive at least 51 per cent of their education through on-
the-job mentorship, is an educational approach applicable under both STAEA, where the government issues
the credential, or through the Post-secondary Learning Act (PSLA), where a post-secondary institution issues the
credential. As a flagship initiative in the Alberta 2030 strategy, expanding the apprenticeship learning model
ensures students gain the skills, knowledge, and competencies needed for fulfilling lives and careers. This
model assists Alberta-based organizations in meeting their talent development needs, and addresses
workforce demands, especially in rapidly evolving industries. While historically linked to skilled trades,
apprenticeship education now supports broader job creation and economic diversification by providing
employers with a skilled workforce. Supporting Goal 2 of the Alberta 2030 strategy, this expansion focuses
on developing skills for jobs and ensuring students are equipped for success at every stage of life.

Education credentials and post-apprenticeship pathways
The STAEA recognizes apprenticeship education as a form of post-secondary education, allowing for
government-issued education credentials to be granted to apprentices upon successful completion of their
program. Education credentials and the development of post-apprenticeship pathways validate apprenticeship
education as a valid form of post-secondary education and provide increased opportunities for learners to
continue their education and training beyond apprenticeship.
In 2024-25, Advanced Education worked with post-secondary institutions to encourage the development of
new transfer pathways from apprenticeship education into other post-secondary programs. Based on the
concept of prior learning recognition, transfer pathways give learners credit towards post-secondary programs
based on education and experience gained in their past, including during an apprenticeship education
program. In March 2025, the Apprenticeship Education Articulation Committee, as part of the Alberta
Council on Admissions and Transfers (ACAT), was formed. The inaugural meeting was attended by
representatives from 15 different post-secondary institutions who discussed actions needed for institutions to
create more transfer credit pathways for apprenticeship program graduates. Additional                       Apprenticeship
Education Articulation Committee meetings will be scheduled in 2025-26.






Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                            25

---PDF PAGE 28---
Results Analysis


Throughout 2024-25, Advanced Education also raised awareness with stakeholders in Alberta’s K-12 and
post-secondary system of STAEA education credentials to address the misperception that apprenticeship
education and the skilled trades are not considered equal to other forms of post-secondary education and
occupations.

Apprenticeship Expansion Grants
In March 2022, Advanced Education issued 14 grants totaling $6.4 million to nine post-secondary institutions
to develop and deliver certificate and diploma programs utilizing the apprenticeship learning model. These
grant-funded programs span various sectors, including early childhood education, hospitality and tourism,
computer sciences and technology, and agricultural sales. Most programs developed with this funding were
launched in the 2022-23 and 2023-24 academic years and are currently operational, with institutions
submitting progress and final reports to the ministry on schedule.
In May 2024, Advanced Education held a second information-sharing session discussing the challenges and
benefits of apprenticeship-style programs in non-traditional trades. Key challenges included securing enough
on-the-job work placements, and some industries resisted offering paid placements and mentorship.
Institutions also indicated that program redesigns and timeline adjustments were necessary, and that
successful implementation hinges on strong collaboration between post-secondary institutions and industry,
shifting employers’ mindset towards an educational partnership. Despite the challenges, this initiative has
successfully increased work-integrated learning opportunities for students, improved industry access to
educated workers, and enhanced awareness of the apprenticeship learning model across Alberta’s industries.
As some grants conclude in March 2025, post-secondary institutions have the capacity to continue delivering
their established apprenticeship-style programs using existing funding arrangements. Looking ahead,
Advanced Education will continue to apply the lessons learned to guide the further expansion of the
apprenticeship learning model in Alberta.

Industry Pathways
Launched in February 2023, the Industry Pathways initiative facilitates the expansion of apprenticeship
education into new occupations under STAEA. It allows industries to explore the creation of new
apprenticeship education programs, industry training programs and designated trades.
Since its inception, the initiative has garnered interest from over 25 occupations seeking information on
potentially adopting the apprenticeship model. In 2024-25, Advanced Education held over 30 working group
meetings with diverse industries such as commercial truck driving, community disability support,
cybersecurity, aviation and arborists. Additionally, two information sessions were conducted in Fall 2024
targeting Alberta’s IT industries to promote awareness of the opportunities available through Industry
Pathways. To support industry engagement, Advanced Education retained two contractors. The first contract
identified occupations suitable for new program development under STAEA was completed in March 2025.
The second contract provides comprehensive support to industry representatives navigating the Industry
Pathways process, with the aim to increase the adoption of the apprenticeship model under STAEA and is in
place until March 2027. A total of $955,891 was invested in these contracts during the 2024-25 fiscal year.
Supporting materials, including the program application and public information sheets, were also updated in
2024-25 for enhanced clarity and efficiency.
The Industry Pathways Initiative provides valuable new access points to post-secondary education and
workforce development for Alberta’s industries, ultimately producing apprenticeship graduates equipped with
practical, job-ready skills. In 2025-26 the ministry anticipates moving towards implementation of the first new
industry training program and designated trade.







26                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 29---
                                                                                                                    Results Analysis


Apprenticeship Learning Grant
Apprenticeship education and skilled trades have a strong linkage to Alberta’s economy. As the economy
strengthens, apprentice enrolment and demand for classroom education increases. Additionally, Alberta is
facing a skilled trades shortage as more workers are reaching the age of retirement. Alberta is currently close
to an all-time high with more than 72,000 registered apprentices. This has resulted in significant pressure on
seats and program delivery activities. In 2024-25, the ministry provided $76 million through the
Apprenticeship Learning Grant (ALG) to 11 public post-secondary institutions, supplementing the Base
Operating Grant to fund a total of 28,250 apprenticeship classroom instruction seats across Alberta.
The Apprenticeship Learning Grant funding is instrumental in supporting the delivery of quality
apprenticeship training and providing apprentices the chance to progress and complete their education.
Allocation of ALG funding relies heavily on evidenced-based evaluation of seat demand. Post-secondary
institutions have the flexibility to adjust seats across programs within the academic year to best meet demand.
In April 2024, Advanced Education announced a pilot program with the International Union of Operating
Engineers (IUOE) Local 955’s Training Trust Fund to deliver Crane and Hoisting Equipment Operator
training. The pilot program was an opportunity for the government to test the use of alternate training
providers. As a part of the $76 million Apprenticeship Learning Grant, the ministry provided $350,000 to
IUOE to deliver four intakes of Crane and Hoisting Equipment Operator training for 32 students. In
2024-25, three cohorts were delivered with a 100 per cent fill rate. A fourth cohort is scheduled for May 2025
and is already full. This was the ministry’s first time funding a union; therefore, policies and processes were
developed to provide adequate oversight and accountability and the ministry worked closely with the IUOE
to implement the pilot program.
In 2025-26, Advanced Education will continue to meet demand for apprenticeship education program seats
through the Apprenticeship Learning Grant and Base Operating Grant. The ministry will also provide
$5 million in funding for union training centres to deliver recognized apprenticeship training.

Apprenticeship Partnerships
Advanced Education has long-standing partnerships with, and is the core funder for, CAREERS, Women
Building Futures, and Skills Canada Alberta. These are key partners in promoting and building awareness of
the opportunities in apprenticeship education and the skilled trades. The work of these partners results in
youth, women, and Indigenous Albertans having increased awareness of, and access to, apprenticeship
education and rewarding jobs in the skilled trades. Increased labour market demand highlights the need for
continued work with partner organizations to promote and attract Albertans to the skilled trades.

CAREERS
CAREERS is an industry-led, not-for-profit foundation with a mission to bring together industry, schools,
government, and communities to guide youth into successful career paths. Advanced Education, through the
Core Funding Grant, provided CAREERS with $22.5 million from 2023 to 2026 to support core
programming. For the Alberta at Work Apprenticeships Partnerships Grant (2022 to 25), Advanced
Education provided CAREERS with $1.26 million for its High School Integration project. In 2024-25,
CAREERS connected with more than 518 schools, and with over 2,529 employers to arrange more than
4,512 paid internships for high school students interested in a career in the skilled trades and other
professions. CAREERS also engaged with Indigenous communities to reach youths in rural areas of the
province. The Young Women in Trades and Technologies camps also gained wide-spread media attention for
their popularity and contributed to the growth of internships for women to 1,222 of the total 4512, making
up over 25 per cent of paid internships.







Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                          27

---PDF PAGE 30---
Results Analysis


Women Building Futures
Women Building Futures is a non-profit organization that works to foster economic security for women
facing barriers to entry in a workforce where they are traditionally underrepresented. Women Building
Futures connects unemployed women and gender diverse individuals, as well as those working multiple jobs
to make ends meet, with higher-paying careers in trades, trucking, and high-demand fields. In 2024-25,
Advanced Education supported Women Building Futures with funding, including:
     •    $3.0 million in core grant funding.
     •    $1.1 million for the Women Ready to Work program to expand activities supporting youth
          engagement, industry supported programs, and to deliver the Career Advancement Scholarship.
     •    Through their Student Impact Fund, which Advanced Education provided with $3 million in funding
          in 2022-23, Women Building Futures also continued to address financial barriers for students whose
          income excluded them from accessing foundational learning; this program will operate until 2025.
As of July 31, 2024, 9,074 women were registered as apprentices in Alberta, a 24 per cent increase from
2023-24. Women account for 13 per cent of the total apprentices registered, a proportion that has been
increasing modestly but consistently over the past decade. Of the women registered as apprentices,
36 per cent are registered in the hairstylist apprenticeship program, 11 per cent are electrician apprentices and
nine per cent are welder apprentices (a 60 per cent increase).
In 2024, Women Building Futures also incorporated emerging energy career pathing awareness and education
into all existing Journey to Trades cohorts, resulting in approximately 118 women receiving education on this
topic, and to prepare them to begin careers that support Alberta’s energy industry. Alberta at Work funding
of $840,000 is allocated through Advanced Education over three years to support this work, with $400,000
provided in 2024-25. In 2024-25, 66 per cent of graduates received financial assistance to complete their job-
training through this organization, while 97 per cent of students graduated from the 18 programs delivered in
Alberta during the year, totaling 270 women. Of the 270 graduates, 72 per cent found work within six months
of graduation.

Skills Canada Alberta
Skills Canada Alberta promotes excellence in trades and technology careers through skills competitions,
hands-on programs for students, and resources for educators. Through the Core Funding Grant, Advanced
Education provided $6.9 million in 2023 over three years to Skills Canada Alberta to support core
programming. In 2024-25, Skills Canada Alberta programs reached over 44,000 students in Alberta to
position skilled trades and technology careers as first choice career options for youth in the province. The
organization leads participation in the Skills Canada National Competition to demonstrate Alberta’s trades
talent on the national and world stage. In 2024, 664 high school students and apprentices participated in the
Provincial Skills Canada Competition, with 62 winners from that group then competing as Team Alberta at
the Skills Canada National Competition in Winnipeg, earning 11 gold, 14 silver and 11 bronze medals. Six
young Albertans competed as members of Team Canada at the WorldSkills Competition in Lyon, France in
September 2024, earning a bronze medal in welding, and a Medallion of Excellence in baking. The next
WorldSkills Competition is September 2026 in Shanghai, China. Additionally, in 2024, Advanced Education
made investments to support more than 20,000 students from over 500 schools to participate in the
Try-A-Trade® Takeout program, and 3,900 junior high students from 132 schools to participate in Skills
Exploration Days.

Alberta at Work apprenticeship partnerships
Advanced Education allocated $15 million over three fiscal years (2022-23 to 2024-25) to support
apprenticeship partnerships with nine other partner organizations that promote awareness of the skilled





28                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 31---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


trades professions and encourage apprenticeship registrations. The one time-grants were provided to the
following organizations:
     •    Alberta Ironworkers Apprenticeship and Training Trust Fund,
     •    Calgary Catholic Immigration Society (Pre-Employment Pipe-Trades Training program),
     •    Christian Labour Association of Canada,
     •    Electrical Industry Training Centres of Alberta,
     •    Lethbridge College – Centre for Trades (STEM program),
     •    Momentum Community Economic Development Society,
     •    The Educational Partnership Foundation (Indigenous partnerships),
     •    Northern Alberta Institute of Technology, and
     •    Southern Alberta Institute of Technology.
Alberta at Work apprenticeship grant recipients have successfully recruited vulnerable and/or
underrepresented students to their pre-apprenticeship/pre-employment training programs and raised
awareness of opportunities in apprenticeship education and the skilled trades. Key activities completed during
the year to reach these achievements included:
     •    Delivering pre-apprenticeship/pre-employment training programs,
     •    Education and promotion of the trades as valuable career paths via targeted marketing campaigns,
          student and parent presentations, in-class presentations, conferences, and career events,
     •    Refinement and delivery of school activity kits to bring trades into K-6 classrooms,
     •    Targeting vulnerable or underrepresented Albertans, and providing unique supports needed to
          navigate apprenticeship education, and
     •    Gathering industry and labour market intelligence to inform programs and services.

Alberta Board of Skilled Trades
The Alberta Board of Skilled Trades (ABST) ensures that the standards and certification for Alberta’s skilled
trades professions are maintained to the highest level of quality and safety, and that Alberta’s tradespeople
have the necessary skills to ensure safety, competency, and compliance with industry requirements in each
trade. In 2024-25, the ABST amended the Designated Trades’ Activities and Certification Requirements
Order regarding the Alberta Building Code and Department of National Defense credentials, as well as for
the industrial construction crew supervisor, boilermaker, electrician, and ironworker trades. The ABST made
recommendations to the Minister for legislative changes to designate the industrial electrician trades and de-
designate the petroleum services trades.
In 2024-25, the My Skilled Trades Network grew to over 1,260 members through ABST’s industry
consultation mechanism. Members collectively participated in over 36 trades-related consultation projects
with government (apprenticeship exams, Red Seal, international credential recognition                     , and trade designation
work). The ABST members also represented the board during multiple government events and promotional
opportunities, including Trades and Apprenticeship Promotion Plan industry engagements, industry annual
general meetings, Apprentice and Industry Training Awards of Excellence, the Premier’s Summit for
Newcomers, and other Apprenticeship Day activities around the province. Members also met with the Skilled
Trades Youth Ambassadors at multiple points throughout the fiscal year to discuss issues facing youth
entering trades careers. Additionally, they met with the Premier’s Council on Skills to discuss attraction,
retention, career paths, and succession planning in the trades.
The expertise and leadership demonstrated through the board is crucial to ensuring Alberta continues to be a
world leader in industry standards and advocacy. Industry involvement and buy-in is critical to the success of
Alberta’s apprenticeship education programs and skilled trades professions. Going forward, the ABST will




Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           29

---PDF PAGE 32---
Results Analysis


continue to raise awareness about the importance of skilled trades in Alberta, and work in collaboration with
Advanced Education, industry stakeholders, and educational institutions to ensure Alberta meets economic
and skilled labour demands in our province.

1.3       Strengthen the alignment of post-secondary programs to employment and expand
          innovative learning opportunities, such as work-integrated learning, to meet
          Albertans’ skills development needs and support labour market demand.

Alberta at Work
Alberta at Work (AAW) is a multi-year cross-government initiative that supports Albertans to develop new
skills and grow their career. The initiative includes a range of investments to support education and career
pathways that respond to labour shortages in key sectors, and address barriers to labour force participation
for underrepresented groups. In 2024-25, Advanced Education committed $73.4 million to support AAW
initiatives. The seven initiatives led by Advanced Education include:
     •    Micro-credential Programs helps Albertans re-skill and upskill to meet the needs of an ever-
          changing economy by creating innovative shorter-term and specialized programs in areas of high
          labour market demand. (page 20)
     •    Work-integrated Learning Expansion expands the Work-integrated Learning Industry Voucher
          program to provide post-secondary students and recent graduates with more opportunities to gain
          work experience in their area of study (page 30)
     •    New Beginnings Bursary supports low-income students studying in programs that align with
          priority economic sectors. (page 44)
     •    The Indigenous Training Strategy focuses on addressing barriers to studies for underrepresented
          learners by expanding access to post-secondary programming and wrap-around supports for
          Indigenous learners. (page 35)
     •    Targeted Enrolment Expansion creates new seats in high demand post-secondary programs that
          support priority industry sectors and have high workforce and student demand. (page 31)
     •    Apprenticeship Learning Model Expansion expands the apprenticeship learning model in
          existing high-demand apprenticeship programs while also supporting the development of new
          apprenticeship programs. (page 25)
     •    Apprenticeship Partners Investment expands apprenticeship opportunities through new and
          existing partnerships. (page 27)

Work-Integrated Learning
The Work-Integrated Learning Industry Voucher program provides a grant to industry associations to
allocate funds to one or more industry employers to support paid work-integrated learning placements for
learners. The program provides post         -secondary students and recent graduates an opportunity to have work
experiences in their area of study while learning or just after graduation. This helps increase                both their
chances of getting a job sooner, related to their interests and credentials, and of having higher median income
upon graduation. The primary objectives of the program are to increase student and industry participation in
paid work-integrated learning, increase collaboration between government and Alberta industry associations,
and strengthen relationships between industry associations, employers, and post-secondary institutions.
Overall, the program will help ensure students are well equipped with the skills needed to contribute to
Alberta’s economy.
In 2023-24, the three original industry associations, from the 2021 pilot, met their annual work-integrated
learning placement targets, and in some cases exceeded their annual targets, as those programs are well
established, and awareness among employer partners is strong. The final annual progress report was





30                                                                                 Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 33---
                                                                                                                    Results Analysis


submitted on May 31, 2024, indicating the successful delivery of the following number of work-integrated
learning placements in 2023-24:
     •    Alberta Construction Association – 161 placements,
     •    BioAlberta – 89 placements, and
     •    Technology Alberta – 228 placements.
In 2024-25, roughly $1.2 million in Alberta at Work funding was provided to three expansion industry
associations to create up to 210 new work-integrated learning placements. The three expansion industry
associations delivered 161 placements in 2024, with progress reports submitted to Advanced Education
between December 2024 and January 2025. Advanced Education did not issue a call for proposals seeking
new industry associations to participate in the Work-Integrated Learning Industry Voucher Program in
2024-25.
In May 2025, the ministry announced a $15 million investment over three years in the Mitacs Internship
program to provide valuable internship opportunities for post-secondary students and recent graduates in the
province’s priority growth areas such as research and development, innovation, and science. This $15 million
in provincial funding, combined with federal and industry funding, will allow the Mitacs Internship Program
to offer more than 3,000 Albertan student internships. Internships also help industry partners achieve their
innovation potential, respond to current business challenges and grow their competitive advantage.

2024-25 Expansion Industry Association Funding and Placements

Expansion Industry Association                                        Funding Allocated                Placements Delivered
Alberta Food Processors Association                                           $517,500                              63

Alberta Hospitality Association                                               $488,750                              69

Archaeological Society of Alberta                                             $201,250                              29

Total                                                                       $1,207,500                            161

Targeted Enrolment Expansion
Advanced Education implemented the Targeted Enrolment Expansion (TEE) program to help address
Alberta’s workforce needs by increasing spaces in post-secondary programs aligned with high-demand fields
needing more working professionals. These high-demand economic sectors include, but are not limited to,
health care, business, aviation, engineering, technology, film production, early childhood education, and
veterinary medicine. The TEE program supports Goal                 1 of the Alberta 2030 strategy to improve access and
student experience.
There are currently two rounds of the TEE program               , and during each round, seat expansions occur over
three years. As part of the first round of funding from 2022 to 2025, TEE entered its third year with the total
amount of $70 million provided in 2024-25. While the TEE grant year runs from July                       2024 to June 2025,
quarterly reporting from participating institutions indicates there are approximately 2,080 new enrolments in
funded programs in 2024-25, which is 72 per cent of the combined target of about 2,900. While quarterly
reporting indicates strong results in 2024-25, some funded programs may fall short of meeting their seat
expansion targets. Where institutions were already struggling to meet targets in previous grant years,
Advanced Education has approved a small number of requests to redirect funding to programs with higher
student demand.
Institutional reporting midway through the program indicates that many of the participating institutions are
on track to meet their enrolment expansion targets in 2024-25, despite the condensed lead time to roll out



Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                          31

---PDF PAGE 34---
Results Analysis


seats in the first year of TEE in 2022. With seat expansions occurring over three years, it is too early to
determine the full impact of the program. Results for the first round of TEE will be available after the
2025-26 grant year. Advanced Education will closely monitor the progress of the first round of the TEE
program, and work with institutions to support them in reaching their overall seat expansion targets.

Air Access Expansion
The Air Access Expansion strategy seeks to expand the enrolment in aviation related programming in Alberta
through the creation of new aviation related programs or increasing seats within current aviation related
programs. In Fall 2022, the Government of Alberta and WestJet signed a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) in recognition of skilled labour challenges facing the aviation sector in Alberta. The MOU is intended
to increase diversification and growth in Alberta’s aerospace, aviation, and logistics sectors. This expansion
will increase seats within aviation-related programming at Mount Royal University (MRU), increasing learners’
access to aviation programs and careers in the field. It will also help strengthen the aviation industry in the
province, especially for Alberta-based aviation companies such as WestJet. This aims to boost the economy,
and lead to further flight options and better service quality within the aviation sector for those living in
Alberta and Western Canada.

Bachelor of Aviation Management program
Advanced Education provided Mount Royal University with $1.5 million in operational funding in 2024-25 as
part of a $6 million investment over three years (2023 to 2026) to support the development, launch, and
expansion of its Bachelor of Aviation Management program. In 2024-25, 80 new seats were created, 40 of
which were through MRU’s Aviation Diploma program, and 40 through MRU’s newly created Bachelor of
Aviation Management program. The new program will have an annual intake of 40 students per year over
three years (2024 to 2027). In 2025-26, MRU will receive $950,000 in operational funding.

Air Access Bursary
In 2024-25, Advanced Education invested $590,000 in the Air Access Bursary to support approximately 59
students in pilot training programs. This bursary makes it easier for Albertans to access pilot training while
supporting Alberta’s labour market needs and industry demand. In 2024-25, the bursary was offered through
a grant agreement with MRU to provide up to $10,000 in financial support to eligible students in pilot
training for the 2024-25 academic year, with reporting available after July 31, 2025. For 2025-26,
approximately $1.7 million is budgeted for the bursary which is expected to support up to 170 students in
pilot training programs at MRU. Advanced Education will continue to support aviation programming in the
province to ensure the sector remains supported by well-trained professionals.

Physician Expansion
Advanced Education, in partnership with the Ministry of Health and post-secondary institutions, is investing
approximately $376 million over four years (2023 to 2027) to increase the number of graduates from Alberta’s
medical schools by 60 each year through new Rural Medical Education Program Training Centres in Grande
Prairie and Lethbridge. This includes $43.2 million to the University of Lethbridge to construct a Rural
Medical Education Training Centre to deliver undergraduate medical training and provide more opportunities
to train doctors in a smaller community, and operational funding to increase the number of seats in Doctor of
Medicine programs. To achieve this, the University of Alberta (U of A) is partnering with Northwestern
Polytechnic to deliver undergraduate medical education through a training centre in Grande Prairie, and the
University of Calgary (U of C) is partnering with the University of Lethbridge to establish a centre in
Lethbridge. The new Rural Medical Education Program Training Centres will each produce 30 medical
graduates per year when fully operational, with each general practitioner able to care for approximately 1,200
patients a year, giving rural populations better access to a doctor, closer to home.



32                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 35---
                                                                                                                      Results Analysis


In 2023-24, the first year of the initiative and latest data available, both the U of A and the U of C each
successfully met their target of 10 additional seats. The U of C exceeded the target and created 34 seats, for a
total of 44 additional seats. At full implementation, there will be 120 additional undergraduate medical seats:
120 new seats at the U of A’s Rural Medical Education Training Centre, and 90 new seats at the U of C’s
Centre. Results for the 2024-25 term will be available in August 2025.

Micro-credentials
Micro-credentials are a new and innovative type of program in Alberta’s post-secondary system that allows
learners to upskill, reskill, and pivot in their careers more quickly than through traditional credentials. Micro-
credentials may be taken as stand-alone courses or stacked together towards a traditional certificate or
diploma. Many of the programs offered as micro-credentials do not have traditional credentials associated
with them. Micro-credential programs provide individuals with an opportunity to have their skills recognized.
Advanced Education supported post-secondary institutions to offer micro-credentials through a pilot
program, creating new types of post-secondary opportunities in innovative areas that respond to rapidly
evolving industry needs. Institutions have now gained experience offering micro-credential programs and are
better equipped to develop and offer such programming in the future.
The final reporting for the first round of the pilot program was released on May 31, 2024. Results indicated
there were a total of 4,822 students enrolled in a micro-credential program, with 3,567 (or 74 per cent)
completing the program as of the reporting deadline. As of the reporting deadline, out of the 56 micro-
credential programs funded under the first round of the pilot project, 49 were being offered, six had been
discontinued, and one was still in development.
In 2024-25, several post-secondary institutions continued to face challenges developing and launching their
micro-credential programs due to issues recruiting appropriate subject matter experts, and in some cases,
struggling to find qualified instructors. Some institutions requested extending their grant terms for another
year to allow for additional time to launch their programs. Institutions also continued to report that a lack of
a framework for micro-credential programs complicated program development. Advanced Education is
exploring a micro-credential framework that will provide guidelines and definitions to Alberta’s post-
secondary system.

Mitacs Globalink Program
The Mitacs Globalink program is a two-way mobility program that provides Alberta students with the
opportunity to research abroad, and students from partner countries with opportunities to pursue academic
research in Alberta. The program also supports bilateral research collaborations between academic
institutions and industry partners, both in Canada and abroad, to attract top talent to drive the growth of
skills, ideas, and innovations, locally and globally.
As of October 2024, the ministry’s investment of $350,000 funded 48 internships and 59 awards. Most
internships were in technology and innovation, energy, and agriculture and forestry sectors, with participants
coming from India, United Kingdom, Mexico, Colombia, France, and Ukraine. For the awards program,
there were a total of 28 Alberta students who studied internationally, and 31 students who came to Alberta.
The inbound participants to Alberta were from Ukraine, France, Germany, and India, with most of the
awards in the technology and innovation, and energy sectors.
Throughout its agreement, from October 2021 to September 2024, Mitacs leveraged Advanced Education’s
contribution of over $1.3 million into an over $2.7 million investment for Alberta, including over $1 million
from the federal government, $264,636 from international partners, and $125,000 from university partners.








Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                            33

---PDF PAGE 36---
Results Analysis


Mental Health Professions Enrolment Expansion
The Mental Health Professions Enrolment Expansion initiative is supporting post                      -secondary institutions
across the province to create new seats in programs related to in-demand mental health professions such as
psychiatric nurses, psychologists, social workers, child and youth care experts, and addiction counsellors.
Expanding mental health profession programs will increase the number of mental health professionals
practicing in Alberta, with the aim of improving access to mental health care across the province.
In 2024-25, Advanced Education invested $3.1 million to support institutions to expand seats in mental-
health related programs, which included $2 million in year one funding, and $1.1 million in one-time funding.
As the Mental Health Professions Enrolment Expansion initiative was newly launched in 2024-25, the
ministry will not receive results until August 31, 2025, for the first annual reporting period.
Going forward, Advanced Education will closely monitor the progress of the Mental Health Professions
Enrolment Expansion initiative and support institutions to reach their expansion targets in funded programs.

Post-Secondary Institutions Capital Projects
Advanced Education provides capital investments in the post-secondary system to expand student capacity
and enhance learning environments that contribute to a strong foundation of graduates that help build the
future. Each year, Alberta’s public post-secondary institutions provide capital plans and capital submissions to
outline their infrastructure needs. The provincial capital plan helps determine which projects will be
approved, and how funding will be allocated for those projects. Once a post-secondary capital project is
approved, Advanced Education works with the public post-secondary institution and the Ministry of
Infrastructure to monitor the progress of each project.
In 2024-25, Advanced Education announced investments of $360.5 million for capital projects over the
three-year budget cycle. This included $116.7 million in 2024-25 to help create modern learning
environments, and $133.1 million for capital maintenance and renewal needs to ensure existing structures are
safe and operating efficiently, while mitigating the deferred maintenance across the system.
Capital projects approved in 2024-25 focused on expansion in high-demand post-secondary programs such as
science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM), trades, and health care, and are as follows:
     •    $125 million in funding over four years for the development of MacEwan University’s new School of
          Business to accommodate up to an additional 7,500 students in business and STEM fields,
     •    $43 million to NAIT for the Advanced Skills Centre planning to expand training capacity in the
          trades,
     •    $63 million to Olds College for the W.J. Elliott Expansion and Renewal project to renovate and
          expand student spaces,
     •    $12.9 million to Red Deer Polytechnic for the CIM-TAC East Campus Expansion to create purpose-
          built space to help businesses conduct applied research,
     •    $215 million to the University of Calgary for the construction of the Multidisciplinary Hub to
          increase student capacity by over 1,000 spaces in STEM programs,
     •    $43.2 million to the University of Lethbridge for the Rural Medical Education Training Centre to
          offer a Doctor of Medicine program and provide more opportunities to train doctors in a smaller
          community,
     •    $2.3 million for the launch and expansion of the Bachelor of Aviation Management program at
          Mount Royal University, and
     •    Investing $11.3 million over two years in 2024 for a state-of-the-art power engineering lab at
          Northwestern Polytechnic to create an additional 60 seats.







34                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 37---
                                                                                                                    Results Analysis


Polytechnic Transitions
Alberta has a differentiated system of publicly funded post-secondary institutions that is designed to foster
learning opportunities to meet the needs of learners in all regions of the province. On June 20, 2024,
Lethbridge College, a public post-secondary institution designated as a comprehensive community college
under the Post-secondary Learning Act, was redesignated as a polytechnic institution under the PSLA through an
Order in Council, effective September 3, 2024. This redesignation was an initiative to increase access to
polytechnic education and a broader spectrum of learning opportunities in southern Alberta. In
October 2024, Lethbridge Polytechnic completed its rebranding, and now offers two new certificate
programs, and one revamped certificate for the Fall 2025 semester. These include General Arts and Science –
A’paitsitapisksinimaattsaa (Weasel People Education), General Arts and Science – Kinesiology, and Medical
Office Assistant and Unit Clerk.
Lethbridge Polytechnic’s redesignation from a comprehensive community college removed their regional
steward role, leaving the Lethbridge region without a regional steward. However, southern Alberta, including
the Lethbridge and Medicine Hat regions, now has a polytechnic institution, comprehensive community
college, First Nations college, and university: Lethbridge Polytechnic, Medicine Hat College, Red Crow
College, and the University of Lethbridge, respectively. This array of post-secondary institutions allows
students to choose from various forms of post-secondary education locally, potentially eliminating the need
for long-distance travel or relocation.

1.4       Strengthen the participation of adult learners from diverse, under-represented, and
          vulnerable populations in educational programs.

Alberta At Work – Indigenous Training Strategy
As part of the Indigenous Training Strategy, a component of Alberta at Work, Advanced Education is
investing a total of $8.8 million over four years (2022 to 2026), with the goal of supporting Indigenous
learning and workforce development initiatives. In 2024-25, nearly $1.9 million in funding was allocated to
Trade Winds to Success and the Indigenous Learning Grant to provide targeted support and resources
aligned with the strategic priorities of Alberta at Work, and Goal 1 of the Alberta 2030 strategy to improve
access and student experience. Indigenous Learning Grant recipients report common measures in interim
reports that are submitted at the end of September annually. As a result, Advanced Education currently only
has results for 2023-24 and will receive 2024-25 results in Fall 2025.

Trade Winds to Success Grants
The Trade Winds to Success Training Society is an Indigenous-led non-profit organization that receives
Advanced Education grant funding to provide pre-apprenticeship training and support to Indigenous
students through a network of Indigenous partners, unions, and employers. The society supports
underrepresented populations and Indigenous people in Alberta secure employment and achieve
journeyperson status. In 2023-24 (latest data available) the Trade Winds to Success Grants results included:
     •    Seven union training programs,
     •    Four residential construction programs,
     •    Five outreach programs,
     •    200 students started training,
     •    109 students completed training, and 59 students still in training,
     •    76 graduates gained employment in the trades, and
     •    Seven Eco-Smart homes were built.





Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                          35

---PDF PAGE 38---
Results Analysis


Grant funding agreements in place between the society and Advanced Education include:
     •    A three-year agreement that began in 2022, with an end date of March 31, 2025, to provide the
          society with $750,000 for its Commercial and Industrial Pre-Apprenticeship Program, $250,000 of
          which was allocated in 2024-25.
     •    A three-year agreement (2024 to 2027) for approximately $1.5 million to support the society’s
          administrative operations and allow for the delivery of programs such as the Residential Construction
          for Indigenous people, $258,340 of which was provided in 2024-25.

Indigenous Learning Grant
Advanced Education, through the Alberta at Work funds, provided over $1.6 million of investments to
address shortages in high-demand post-secondary programs, and in wrap-around services for Indigenous
students through the Indigenous Learning Grant. The goal of the program is to tackle systemic barriers to
accessing post-secondary education for Indigenous students, and to provide effective support throughout
their educational journey. Eligible institutions for the Indigenous Learning Grant encompass 26 publicly
funded post-secondary institutions, and five First Nations Colleges. Through the Indigenous Learning Grant,
institutions can expand enrolment into high-demand programs and develop or expand Indigenous-specific
wrap-around supports for Indigenous learners. In 2023-24, the grant supported the creation of over 308 new
seats in public post-secondary institutions, independent academic institutions, and First Nations Colleges.
The grant also provided 321 individual financial coaching sessions, 54 academic coaching sessions, 900 hours
of STEM tutoring, hiring of 10 full-time staff, and 12 seats held for Indigenous students at public post-
secondary institutions and independent academic institutions. In 2024-25, the ministry distributed over
$1.1 million to public post-secondary institutions and independent academic institutions and $500,000 to First
Nations Colleges for the Indigenous Learning Grant.

Indigenous Program Grants
Growth and development within Indigenous communities are driving increased demand for local training and
education initiatives. Community-based programs are critical for enhancing Indigenous student participation
and completion rates, while also providing culturally safe learning environments. Advanced Education is
dedicated to fostering mutually beneficial relationships with Indigenous adult post-secondary education
providers. These partnerships aim to assist providers to develop and offer a broad spectrum of educational
activities and initiatives which ultimately serve to increase the success of Indigenous adult learners through
multiple pathways into, and dedicated supports throughout, adult education for Indigenous adult learners.
Advanced Education currently only has results for 2023-24 and will receive 2024-25 results in Summer 2025.

First Nations Colleges Grant
In 2024-25, Advanced Education allocated $3.2 million in annual funding to First Nations Colleges, through
the First Nations Colleges Grant to support a wide variety of programs focused on the inclusion and success
of Indigenous learners. The First Nations Colleges Grant is a program grant aimed at supporting the
enactment and implementation of a diverse range of activities executed by First Nations Colleges that
enhance foundational skills, increase access to higher education and training opportunities, and improve both
retention and learning outcomes for Indigenous learners.
Through the First Nations Colleges Grant, First Nations Colleges can invest funding in any number of
initiatives that support ongoing operations, foundational learning, and programming. In 2023-24 (latest data
available), the grant supported the creation of over 1,013 seats, 296 in foundational learning programs, eight
full-time faculty and staff positions, and student access to learning services, including library resources.
Advanced Education has committed to ongoing funding of Indigenous-specific program grants, including a
$500,000 increased allocation for the First Nations Colleges Grant specifically designated for First Nations
Colleges in the next fiscal year.



36                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 39---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


Indigenous Post-secondary Mental Health Grant
The Indigenous Post-secondary Student Mental Health Grant is a program grant aimed at supporting an array
of non-clinical culturally responsive mental health and well-being initiatives for Indigenous learners enrolled
at First Nations Colleges. Through the Indigenous Post-secondary Student Mental Health Grant, students can
access non-clinical culturally responsive mental health services and programming on First Nations Colleges
campuses. In 2023-24 (the latest data available), the grant supported the delivery of over 642 non-clinical
mental health counselling appointments, and 108 mental health and well-being programs or events. In
2024-25, the ministry provided $400,000 in grant fundings that were distributed equally across the five First
Nations Colleges.

Indigenous Initiatives Grant
The Indigenous Initiatives Grant provided nearly $1.3 million in funding to local Indigenous adult and post-
secondary education learning providers to support the development and delivery of workforce learning
programs. These programs are specifically designed to align with and advance both the ministry’s and grant
recipient’s key strategic priorities, while also enhancing employment skills and access to learning within
Indigenous communities. First Nations Colleges, Metis Settlements, Indigenous Adult Learning Providers,
and Rupertsland Institute are eligible for the Indigenous Initiatives Grant. Through the Indigenous Initiatives
Grant, recipients can offer workforce development and employment skills programming for Indigenous
learners. In 2023-24 (the latest data available), the grant supported the creation and offering of over 485 seats
in 18 unique learning programs, and 65 scholarships for Indigenous post-secondary students.
In 2024-25, $500,000 was distributed equally across the five First Nations Colleges, $290,000 was distributed
equally across the four Indigenous Adult Learning Providers, and $306,250 was distributed equally across
seven Métis Settlements. Advanced Education also distributed $150,000 to Rupertsland Institute.
Maskwacis Cultural College Emergency Relief Grant
The Maskwacis Cultural College Emergency Response Grant of $40,000 was provided by the ministry to
support strategic planning, and asset protection, among other emergency response needs following the forced
closure of their campus due to damages to the building from to a severe storm. Results of the Maskwacis
Cultural College Emergency Response Grant will be available in Summer 2025.

First Nations Agreements
The three provincial agreements between the Government of Alberta, and First Nation Tribal and Treaty
organizations ensures a productive working relationship based on areas of mutual interest, collaboration and
cooperation. The Agreements provide a formal framework for continued collaboration by bringing elected
officials, Chiefs and Councils together to support meaningful discussion, share information, and explore
issues of mutual concern. In 2024-25, Advanced Education provided $250,000 to support the Confederacy of
Treaty Six First Nations Relationship Agreement Education Table and the Stoney Nakoda-Tsuut’ina Tribal
Council Protocol Agreement Education Table. The Blackfoot Confederacy-Government of Alberta Protocol
Agreement did not receive money in 2024-25 as their funding cycle falls on alternating years from the other
two agreements. Through the Protocol and Relationship Agreement Grants, recipients can invest in initiatives
that support the attainment of key issues identified in individual Education Table Work Plans. Details on the
results achieved through the Provincial Agreement Grants will not be available until September 2025 and
January 2026.

Students with Disabilities Grant Program
Under the Alberta Human Rights Act, Alberta’s post-secondary institutions are required to provide
accommodation in the form of resources and supports to students with disabilities. Advanced Education




Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           37

---PDF PAGE 40---
Results Analysis


provides an annual Students with Disabilities Grant of over $11.2 million to 26 publicly funded post-
secondary institutions to enhance their capacity to provide services, supports, and accommodations for
students with disabilities seeking assistance. This grant complements the grant funding available for students
with disabilities through Alberta Student Aid and plays an important role in providing access to adult learning
opportunities.
In 2023-24 (the latest data available), the Students with Disabilities Grant helped 26 publicly funded post-
secondary institutions accommodate 21,750 students with disabilities across the province, representing a
nine per cent increase from the previous year. Advanced Education recognizes that there has been an increase
in the number of students self-identifying as needing disability supports, as well as in the number of students
assessed as having multiple disabling conditions. These increases have led to higher costs to institutions in
providing accommodations to students with disabilities.
Going forward, the ministry plans to continue its long-term commitment to help students with disabilities
receive the accommodations and supports they need. The grant program runs from July 1 to June 30, with
final reports for the 2024-25 term expected to be submitted to the ministry by August 31, 2025.

Post-secondary Student Mental Health Grant
The Post-secondary Student Mental Health Grant recognizes that promoting student mental health and
supporting programs and services that respond to learner mental health concerns strengthens the
participation of adult learners from diverse, underrepresented, and vulnerable populations in post-secondary
education programs. The grant provides Alberta’s 26 publicly funded post-secondary institutions with
$8 million annually to support the delivery of non-clinical mental health programs and services. Annual
allocations to institutions vary from $80,000 to approximately $1.1 million, based on factors such as campus
location and institutional size, to provide institutions with funding predictability and stability to ensure service
continuity for learners. The grant funds a broad range of initiatives within this non-clinical mandate,
including, but not limited to, counselling, peer support programs, on-campus mental health awareness, and
promotion campaigns, developing campus mental health strategies, and training for faculty, staff, and
students on topics such as suicide prevention.
The 2024-25 Post-secondary Student Mental Health Grant interim reports are due to Advanced Education on
August 31, 2025. In 2023-24 (the latest data available), the grant supported the delivery of over 60,000 non-
clinical mental health or addictions counselling appointments, continuing to surpass pre-COVID-19
pandemic levels, when approximately 55,000 appointments were typically delivered each year. The grant also
supported the delivery of mental health formal training and skills development activities to over 15,000 staff
and students. In 2024-25, the grant was renewed for another three-year term (2024 to 2027) through updates
to the program’s guidelines and reporting templates, including the incorporation of student feedback to
ensure the program is responsive to student priorities and concerns.
In addition, Advanced Education provides $300,000 annually to the Canadian Mental Health Association
Alberta Division and Centre for Suicide Prevention to support the operation of the Healthy Campus Alberta
(HCA) community of practice that supports institutional capacity to develop programs and services that
effectively respond to learner mental health needs by serving as a provincial hub for collaboration and
learning. Results from the Healthy Campus Alberta Impact Survey include that 89 per cent of respondents
found information related to student mental health through HCA and were able to transfer what they heard
at HCA events to their work environment. Further, 86 per cent of respondents indicated that they made
useful contacts through HCA, and 81 per cent of respondents indicated that they used resources on the HCA
website that assisted them in their role.









38                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 41---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


Addressing Gender-based Violence
The Government of Alberta remains committed to increasing awareness of consent and healthy relationships
and addressing gender-based violence in all its forms. In 2023, the Minister of Arts, Culture and Status of
Women signed the National Action Plan to End Gender-Based Violence and successfully negotiated a four-
year funding agreement with the federal government. As part of this agreement, in 2024-25, Advanced
Education received over $1 million and dispersed it to all 26 publicly funded post-secondary institutions and
five First Nations Colleges. The federal funding will be used to bolster sexual and gender-based violence
awareness and prevention activities and implement survivor-centric reporting tools and processes. In
March 2025, Advanced Education provided an additional $950,000 to publicly funded post-secondary
institutions, and $100,000 to four First Nations Colleges, to support sexual and gender-based violence
prevention training and awareness events and campaigns.
Alberta’s post-secondary institutions continue to meaningfully raise awareness of consent, sexual violence,
and how to support those who may have experienced sexual violence by increasing awareness campaigns,
events, and training opportunities for students, staff, and faculty. This was demonstrated by the 16 training
events delivered at institutions with 8,445 learners, staff, and faculty participating in 79 sexual and gender-
based violence prevention and support training programs and opportunities. With the support of Advanced
Education, First Nations Colleges are also implementing sexual and gender                    -based violence prevention
training and awareness events and campaigns. The first six weeks of the academic semester are usually
considered a high-risk time for sexual violence; therefore, September is a particularly critical time to raise
awareness of consent. In September 2024, the ministry declared the third week of September as Consent
Awareness Week in perpetuity through the Special Days Act. This marks every September as an opportunity to
focus on the importance of consent while students are heading back to campus. These prevention efforts,
along with survivor-centric reporting tools, create safer environments for post                 -secondary students.
The first National Action Plan to End Gender-Based Violence report was due in April 2024, which did not
provide institutions who had received initial funding in February 2024 with sufficient time to launch activities
to report on. Sixteen of 26 institutions had reported spending funds by April                   1, 2024. Advanced Education
extended the grant for 2023-24 funds to February 28, 2026, to allow institutions more time to initiate
activities. The final report for 2023-24 National Action Plan to End Gender-Based Violence funds is due to
the ministry April 1, 2025, and reporting for 2024-25 is due in April 2026. Going forward, Advanced
Education will also collaborate with other ministries and government partners to implement the Government
of Alberta’s 10-year Strategy to End Gender-Based Violence, which was announced in May 2025.

Foundational Learning Assistance
Foundational Learning Assistance creates access to adult learning opportunities that support upskilling and
re-skilling for jobs with labour market demand through two main categories of programming—foundational
learning and skills development. Foundational learning programs build full-time and part-time students’
foundational competencies to pursue further education, or to find employment. These include academic
upgrading (Grades 10-12), adult basic education (Grades 1-9), and English as an Additional Language. Skills
development programs provide full-time occupationally focused training opportunities that enable students to
get a job and substantially improve their employment situation, adapt to changing labour market conditions,
or gain skills to sustain employment. These include integrated foundational pathways, pre-apprenticeship
programs, and transitional vocational programs.
Eligible Albertans can receive funding to assist with living costs, tuition, books, supplies, and childcare while
attending approved programs. Tuition and fees are paid directly to the approved educational institution, while
monthly living allowances, books, and supplies are paid directly to the student. Approved educational
institutions participating in the program include public post-secondary institutions, private providers,






Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           39

---PDF PAGE 42---
Results Analysis


community providers, First Nations Colleges, Indigenous learning providers, and public and other school
boards recognized by the Ministry of Education.
In 2024-25, Foundational Learning Assistance supported nearly 6,900 Albertans attending foundational
learning and skills development programs. Foundational Learning Assistance also executed a two-year
extension to a pilot project with Momentum Community Economic Development Society for its Tech
Training for Women program, a 20-week research and innovation skills training initiative designed to provide
opportunities for women to upskill and reskill to gain entry level employment opportunities or continue their
formal training within the technology sector.
Foundational Learning Assistance also underwent a program review that resulted in three iterative updates to
the Foundational Learning Assistance Policy Manual throughout the 2024-25 fiscal year. Updates focused on
ensuring the program was serving the right population and providing the right level of funding support to
ensure effective program outcomes, including:
     •    Refining the types of other exceptional expenses that can be claimed,
     •    Clarifying the approval process for academic upgrading at high schools,
     •    Refining the types of skills development programs that can be approved,
     •    Increasing the part-time income threshold, and
     •    Introducing standardized tuition refund parameters.
With the iterative policy updates implemented there was an approximate nine per cent reduction in the
average cost per student in the 2024-25 fiscal year. The ministry will continue to monitor to identify any
trends. Foundational Learning Assistance may be provided to students 16 to 19 years of age who are
completing their High School Education, and are also pregnant, or a single parent, or living independently
due to a significant breakdown in the student’s relationship with their parents or guardians. In 2024-25, the
program saw the highest number of high school students in the program’s history with approximately 2,100
students supported by Foundational Learning Assistance, an increase of nine per cent from the prior year.
This continued increase may still be due to increased demands as some students fell behind in their learning
due to COVID-19 health restrictions, and the reduction of in-person learning at educational institutions that
delivered Foundational Learning Assistance funded foundational learning and skills development
programming.
Advanced Education’s Foundational Learning Assistance budget was originally approved at $116.9 million in
2024-25 but was later reduced to $82.2 million due to federal Labour Market Transfer Agreements funding
cuts of $70.8 million. This significant federal reduction was challenging for program providers. In 2024-25,
Advanced Education spent $75.6 million through the Foundational Learning Assistance program to support
nearly 6,900 Albertans attending foundational learning and skills development programs. This expenditure
was less than the $82.2 million budgeted, due to the decrease in the average cost per student over the course
of the fiscal year from successive policy updates. The program ultimately was able to serve the same number
of students expected under the originally approved budget.
The primary measure of success for the Foundational Learning Assistance programs is further education or
employment of participating students. The overall provincial standard for students accepted into and starting
foundational learning and skills development programs is that 70 per cent of students become employed or
advance to further education within 90 days of program completion. Most recent data indicates that
73 per cent of those who complete the program of study secured employment or advanced to further
education within 90 days.

Community Adult Learning Program
The Community Adult Learning Program (CALP) provides foundational learning opportunities in the areas
of literacy, numeracy, English language learning, and basic digital skills, as well as education for adults who do




40                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 43---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


not yet have the skills required to transition into academic upgrading (Grades 10-12), other learning
opportunities, or employment. CALP supports Albertans who often face multiple barriers to learning and
have complex needs such as mental illness, physical challenges, learning disabilities, and low socio-economic
status. While the CALP programming does not lead to formal credentials, given its informal, part-time, and
learner-centred approach, it plays a key role in preparing individuals for the workforce and for further
learning, including high school equivalency programs. CALP programs are delivered across the province by
80 community-based providers, collectively reaching more than 220 communities. In 2024-25, Advanced
Education provided $21.1 million of grant funding to the program. This included $13.1 million distributed
amongst 80 community providers, $6.1 million provided to three granting councils located in Edmonton,
Calgary and Red Deer, and $1.7 million for two professional development providers. This funding supported
operations during the 2024-25 program year (July 1, 2024, to June 30, 2025).
During the 2023-24 program year (the latest data available), CALP supported approximately 19,620 adult
learners through 37,288 learning opportunities, totaling 154,060 hours of instruction, a 30 per cent increase
from the previous year. Of these learners, more than 950 self-identified as Indigenous, and more than 6,100
were newcomers to Canada. Ninety-two per cent of learners reported increased self-confidence in literacy and
foundational learning as a result of their participation. Similarly, 92 per cent of learners reported applying the
skills they gained through CALP, reinforcing their learning, and significantly increasing the likelihood of long-
term foundational skill retention.
Meeting the substantial increase in demand for services within existing budget constraints presented
significant challenges for providers, especially in larger urban centres where pressures on service delivery are
most acute. The reduction to the 2024-25 Foundational Learning Assistance budget, due to federal Labour
Market Transfer Agreement cuts, further increased demand on CALP with more foundational learners
seeking alternative programming.

Ethnocultural Grants
In 2024-25, Advanced Education provided $250,000 each to the Canadian Arab Friendship Association,
Alberta Somali Community Centre, and Nigerian Canadian Association of Calgary, as part of a three-year
grant agreement (2023 to 2026) with an overall investment of $2.25 million. The central focus of this
programming is to improve access for newcomers to employment, training, translation services, and language
instruction.

Helmets to Hardhats Skilled Pathway Program
The Helmets to Hardhats Skilled Pathway Program provides military and veteran community members with
services to integrate into civilian careers with a focus on opportunities in the skilled trades’ unionized
construction sector. Participants who complete the program are eligible to become members of a local
Alberta trade union with the intent of becoming an apprentice in one of Alberta’s skilled trades.
In November 2024, Advanced Education announced new grant funding of $300,000 over two years (2024-25
and 2025-26) to Helmets to Hardhats. The 18-month pilot is projected to support 50 participants across 25
unionized organizations in Alberta. Participants are expected to enter construction safety certification and
supervisory training, to equip them for job-site readiness, with 40 participants intended to enter
apprenticeship programs.
Advanced Education is committed to supporting military and veteran community members to gain education
and experience in the trades and pursue rewarding careers. In 2025-26, Advanced Education will provide the
remaining $150,000 of funding to Helmets to Hardhats through the grant agreement.








Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           41

---PDF PAGE 44---
Results Analysis


1.5       Ensure government’s investments in student financial supports are responsive to the
          post-secondary education and skills needs of Albertans and the labour market.

Alberta Student Aid
Alberta Student Aid supports access to affordable post-secondary education for Albertans. It achieves this by
providing financial assistance through both repayable loans and non-repayable grants, scholarships and
awards. It also offers debt management programs to help student loan borrowers successfully repay their
loans. The ministry also administers the Canada Student Financial Assistance Program (CSFAP) on behalf of
the federal government. Advanced Education works to ensure Alberta’s student loans are responsive to
changes in demand driven by population changes, demographics, student enrollment trends, and the
economy.
In 2024-25, Advanced Education invested approximately $1.1 billion to help Alberta students access post-
secondary education. This included approximately $905 million in student loans to help 108,100 students,
while approximately $63 million in grants supported 18,100 students, and approximately $101 million in
scholarships and awards supported 49,200 students.
In Spring 2024, the CSFAP updated the shelter cost allowance used to determine financial need on student
aid applications. The previous formula for estimating student housing costs had not been updated since 1998.
The new formula uses the modified average Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation vacant unit rental
rates. For the 2024-25 academic year, Alberta aligned with CSFAP to modernize the shelter cost allowance on
Alberta student aid applications to better reflect the actual rental housing costs faced by most post-secondary
students.
Effective January 1, 2024, Alberta Student Aid introduced a 10 per cent cap on student aid funding growth at
private career colleges. This means that only a 10 per cent annual increase in the number of students
accessing Alberta Student Aid is permitted, based on the previous student aid funding year (August 1 through
July 31). This cap applies specifically to students receiving financial aid, not overall enrollment.
Several new or reinstated academic progress policies were also put in place to help students apply for
appropriate funding program for their academic course load, complete programs in a timely manner, avoid
excessive loan debt, and prepare for the workforce. The new and reinstated policies also increase
accountability, protect taxpayer dollars, maintain CSFAP alignment, and introduce safeguards and quality
assurance measures to support the integrity of programs.































42                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 45---
                                                                                                                      Results Analysis


Alberta Student Aid
                                                                      2022-23                 2023-24                  2024-25
 Financial Amounts
      Alberta student loans                                      $1,058 million           $1,091 million             $905 million
      Alberta student grants                                        $64 million              $89 million               $63 million
      Scholarships and Awards                                       $97 million             $100 million             $101 million
      Total student aid                                          $1,219 million           $1,280 million           $1,069 million
 Students Supported
      Alberta student loans                                          124,500                  123,200                  108,100
      Alberta student grants                                          15,600                   21,300                   18,100
      Scholarships and awards                                         47,100                   48,400                   49,200
      Total number of students supported*                            187,200                  192,900                  175,400
* Students who received more than one type of student aid may be counted more than once.

Post-secondary students are facing affordability pressures due to the increased cost of living, making it more
difficult for some to repay student loans. To support clients who are struggling to repay, Student Aid
provides the Repayment Assistance Plan which helps eligible borrowers keep their loans in good standing.
According to the 2022 Student Aid survey of all Alberta student loan borrowers (latest data available),
73 per cent of student loan borrowers attending post-secondary at that time agreed they felt confident about
their ability to repay their loans after study. Based on historical averages, it is expected that 90 per cent of
Alberta student loans will be repaid.

Alberta Student Grant
The Alberta Student Grant (ASG) supports access to higher learning for lower-income student loan
borrowers who are not eligible for the federal Canada Student Grant for Full-Time Students. The ASG
supports students in one-year certificate programs, graduate studies, and apprenticeships in high-demand
trades occupations in Alberta. It can be used to help a student cover the cost of tuition, fees, books or
supplies and living costs. It also contributes to the achievement of Goal 5 of the Alberta 2030 strategy to
improve sustainability and affordability.
There has been an increase in demand for the following programs eligible for ASG: one-year programs
including Open Studies and University Transfer programs, apprenticeship education programs under the
Skilled Trades and Apprenticeship Education Act, and graduate level programs. Due to high demand in 2024-25, an
additional $4.7 million was allocated as part of the Third Quarter Fiscal Update to address cost pressures in
this program. As ASG is administered as a “demand driven” program rather than on a “first come, first
served” basis, forecasting and budgeting for the program is often difficult. In 2024-25, a third-party
contractor completed a review of the eligibility, forecasting methodologies and budget requirements for the
ASG, and provided recommendations to support the program’s future predictability and sustainability.
Since the grant was introduced in 2020, it has helped Albertans access the education they need to build
rewarding careers. Advanced Education remains committed to supporting affordability and has increased the
budget for the ASG to $59.4 million in 2025-26 to support an estimated 17,400 students.









Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                            43

---PDF PAGE 46---
Results Analysis


New Beginnings Bursary
The New Beginnings Bursary is a non-repayable support for low-income students enrolled in qualified, high-
demand programs in sectors that support Alberta labour market needs and industry demand. The bursary
increases access to post-secondary education for those facing financial constraints. It can help pay for tuition,
fees, books, supplies and living costs to make it easier for Albertans to access the specialized training they
need to build successful careers and join the workforce. In October 2024, Advanced Education disbursed
$5 million to 1,000 students in qualified programs of study. The New Beginnings Bursary will continue in
2025-26, with a $5 million budget.

Alberta Heritage Scholarship Amendment Regulation
In 2024-25, the Alberta Heritage Scholarship Regulation (AHSR) was amended to ensure consistency in how
the Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund (AHSF) spending is managed. The amendment increases spending
flexibility and removes the need for regular changes to the regulation to increase the spending cap, while still
protecting the health of the fund. The amendment also included the addition of a clarifying definition of
“program of study” that aligns with the definition in the Student Financial Assistance Regulation.                     The
amended regulation was approved by Cabinet in February 2025 and came into effect April 1, 2025.
Scholarships drawn from the AHSF are demand driven, meaning every learner who meets the eligibility
requirements receives the scholarship. Demand is generally powered by factors such as population growth,
post-secondary enrolment, and eligibility changes. Growth in the fund and demand for scholarships is
expected to continue. Going forward, the amendments will allow Advanced Education to spend up to
4.5 per cent of the market value of the fund for AHSF funded scholarships and awards without further
regulatory amendments. In 2025-26, $59.5 million is budgeted for Alberta Heritage Scholarships.













































44                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 47---
                                                                                                                    Results Analysis

Performance Metrics

Performance Measure 1.a
          Total domestic learners enrolled in approved programs offered by Alberta’s publicly
          funded post-secondary institutions





















This measure shows the total number of unique domestic learners enrolled in approved programs offered by
publicly funded post-secondary institutions in Alberta by academic year. Results also include apprentices
enrolled in the classroom instruction portion of their apprenticeship program at a publicly funded post-
secondary institution. This measure helps the department identify shifts in enrolment patterns among
domestic learners attending publicly funded post-secondary institutions and monitor capacity of the post-
secondary system. It also demonstrates the ministry’s continued commitment to ensuring accessibility for
domestic learners.

Results Analysis
In the 2023-24 academic year (latest data available), more than 242,300 unique domestic learners enrolled in
approved programs at Alberta’s publicly funded post-secondary institutions. This exceeded the 2022-23 total
of 236,054 learners by nearly 6,300, an increase of 2.7 per cent.
In 2023-24, the top fields of study that domestic learners enrolled in were languages, social sciences, arts, and
humanities (29 per cent), followed by health sciences (18 per cent), physical, natural, and applied sciences
(17 per cent), and business (13 per cent). The majority (83 per cent) of domestic learners enrolled in
credential programs, including degree programs (53 per cent), diploma programs (15 per cent), and certificate
programs (15 per cent). Among non-credential programs, 61 per cent of domestic learners enrolled in either
open studies or university transfer programming while the remaining enrolled in other programs, such as
academic upgrading, adult basic education, etc. Total domestic enrolments include apprenticeship and non-
apprenticeship enrolments.












Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                          45

---PDF PAGE 48---
Results Analysis


Apprenticeship Domestic Enrolment Headcount




















Between 2019-20 and 2023-24, the apprenticeship enrolment headcount generally showed an upward trend
(from approximately 12,600 to more than 19,600, a total increase of 56 per cent), and returned to pre-
pandemic levels in 2023-24. The low level of enrolment in 2019-20 was likely attributed to the onset of the
COVID-19 pandemic, when two rounds of intake for apprentice in-class learning were suspended for all
relevant post-secondary institutions. The intake resumed in the following years, which likely resulted in the
gradual increase in apprenticeship enrolment.
Non-Apprenticeship Domestic Enrolment Headcount




















The enrolment headcount among non-apprenticeship domestic learners has remained relatively stable since
2019-20, with 2022-23 showing a 1.6 per cent decline, and then a bounce back 1.7 per cent increase in
2023-24.
The overall increase in domestic enrolment in the 2023-24 academic year could be attributed to the Targeted
Enrolment Expansion program, and investments announced in Budget 2024. The Targeted Enrolment





46                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 49---
                                                                                                                    Results Analysis


Expansion program started in 2022 and invests in new seats in high-demand programs at Alberta’s post-
secondary institutions. The goal of the initiative is to create more opportunities in post-secondary programs
whose graduates have the skills and training that employers need in Alberta’s priority economic sectors. Budget
2024 funded enrolment growth and provided more support for students with specialized needs. It also
increased support for choice in education and expanded apprenticeships. See sections on targeted enrolment
expansion and mental health professions enrolment expansion for more information.

Notes
•    For a more detailed breakdown of results, see Headcount Enrolment within the Alberta Post-secondary
     Education System. https://open.alberta.ca/opendata/system-wide-headcount-enrolment-within-the-
     alberta-post-secondary-education-system
•    The sum of total apprenticeship domestic enrolment headcount plus non-apprenticeship domestic
     enrolment headcount may be larger than the total domestic headcount, as some learners may have been
     enrolled in an apprenticeship and non-apprenticeship program in the same reporting year.
•    In 2022-23, some learners from Ukraine who had expedited visas were incorrectly reported with a
     “Permanent Resident” legal status; this over-reported, by approximately 500, the number of domestic
     learners in English as a Second Language programming during that year. Starting from 2023-24, these
     learners have been correctly reported under “other visa” and therefore included within the international
     learner demographic.
•    In the 2022-23 Advanced Education Annual Report, apprentices were within scope of the former
     Ministry of Skilled Trades and Professions.

















































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                          47

---PDF PAGE 50---
Results Analysis


Performance Indicator 1.b
          Percentage of post-secondary graduates who report being employed approximately
          two years after graduation (biennial survey)




















This indicator describes the employment rate of recent graduates from Alberta’s publicly funded post                       -
secondary institutions who are not enrolled as full-time students. Tracking employment rates of recent post-
secondary graduates provides insights into whether Alberta’s post-secondary education is supporting
graduates to achieve labour market outcomes.

Results Analysis
In 2024, 95 per cent of recent post-secondary graduates (Class of 2021-22) in the labour force reported that
they were employed at the time of the survey. This result remains the same as the result from the 2022 survey.
In 2024, graduates from most fields of study had employment rates higher than 90 per cent. Specifically,
graduates who studied education as well as health and related fields had the highest employment rate
(98 per cent), whereas those who studied mathematics, computer and information sciences had the lowest
employment rate (89 per cent). Employment rates also varied by credential. Graduates with a master’s degree
reported the highest employment rate at 96 per cent, followed closely by those with a doctoral degree or
diploma (95 per cent for both). Graduates with an applied or bachelor’s degree had an employment rate of
94 per cent, the same rate as those with a certificate.
Results for this metric may have been influenced by the economy and labour market conditions during the
time when graduates were looking for work. An economic recession may result in a lower employment rate
among post-secondary graduates. For example, the low result in 2016 may have been influenced by the
economic downturn in that year.

Note
•    For a more detailed breakdown of results, see Section 6.1 of Results of the Graduate Outcomes Survey
     and Employment Success Survey for Publicly-Funded Post-Secondary Institutions, Class of 2021/2022.
     https://open.alberta.ca/publications/results-of-gos-and-ess-publicly-funded-post-secondary-institutions-
     class-of-2021-2022








48                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 51---
                                                                                                                    Results Analysis


Performance Indicator 1.c
          Percentage of apprenticeship graduates who report being employed (biennial survey)



















This metric describes the proportion of recent apprenticeship graduates in the labour force who are employed
between five and 18 months after graduation. Alberta’s apprenticeship education combines on-the-job
learning through mentorship and formal classroom instruction that is usually provided at a post-secondary
institution. Tracking employment rates of recent apprenticeship graduates provides insights into whether
Alberta’s apprenticeship education is supporting graduates to achieve labour market outcomes.

Results Analysis
In 2024, 96 per cent of recent apprenticeship graduates in the labour force reported that they were employed
at the time of the survey. This result is higher than all results observed over the previous four reporting
cycles, and the increases are statistically significant at a 95 per cent confidence interval. Employment rates of
apprenticeship graduates are highly influenced by the economy.

Note
•    For a detailed breakdown of results, see the 2024 Apprenticeship Education Survey Summary Report.
     https://open.alberta.ca/publications/apprenticeship-education-survey-summary-report



























Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                         49

---PDF PAGE 52---
Results Analysis


Outcome Two: Alberta’s high-quality adult learning system and professional regulatory
environment attract, develop, and retain a skilled and talented workforce

Key Objectives

2.1       Strengthen and streamline the professional regulatory                          environment to reduce
          timelines and barriers to registration within professional occupations to attract and
          retain a skilled workforce in Alberta while maintaining a high standard of quality.

Professional Governance Act
The Professional Governance Act (PGA) was introduced as Bill 40 in the legislative assembly on March 11, 2025,
and passed third reading on May 8, 2025. The PGA will consolidate and streamline Advanced Education’s
professional governance legislation from nine separate acts into one, and modernize professional legislation,
emphasizing good governance and consistency, while remaining responsive to the unique needs and
operations of each professional regulatory organization.
In 2024-25, Advanced Education consulted with its professional regulatory organizations on the content of
the proposed bill. The ministry hosted a technical briefing when the PGA was introduced, as well as follow-
up question-and-answer sessions to support understanding, and to gather comments. By streamlining
professional governance, the Professional Governance Act would hold all professional regulatory organizations to
the same high standard of practice, including the requirement to protect public interest. This ensures
professional regulatory organizations, and their respective regulated professionals, conduct themselves in a
way that does not harm the public.
The ministry continues to meet with its professional regulatory organizations as a collective group on Bill 40
to inform the development of corresponding regulations. The ministry will also set up individual meetings
with each professional regulatory organization in 2025-26 to gather feedback, and ensure the new legislation
accurately reflects the unique needs of each organization and the professions they regulate. Professional
regulatory organizations have expressed concern over the time and costs required to implement changes
associated with the new legislation. In response, the planned proclamation date was extended to June 2026.
Advanced Education developed a bylaw template for professional regulatory organizations that will be shared
upon passing of the PGA. One professional regulatory organization indicated that the bylaw template
represented a savings of approximately $40,000 in staff time and legal fees. The ministry is also developing
supporting documents for the code of conduct and ethics, practice standards and guidelines, as well as the
complaints process.

Land Agent Licensing
A land agent is a person who negotiates for, or acquires a surface interest in, land on behalf of the person’s
employer, as an agent on behalf of another person, or on the person’s own behalf. In Alberta, a land agent
must have a licence; without an active licence, you cannot engage in the activities of a land agent, advertise, or
represent yourself as a land agent, or act in a manner that leads a reasonable person to think you are a land
agent.
As a regulator, land agent licensing ensures that individuals who want to perform the duties of interim or
permanent land agents meet the entry-to-practice standards for the occupation, as set out in the Land Agent
Licensing Act and the Land Agents Licensing Regulation. It also ensures that those continuing to practice
maintain their continuing competence. The Land Agent Advisory Committee provides recommendations to
the Minister of Advanced Education or Registrar of Land Agents on matters related to land agent licensing,
including qualifications of applicants for licences, standards of conduct for land agents, and other matters
requested by the Minister or the Registrar. In 2024-25, the Land Agent Licensing Office issued 58 new




50                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 53---
                                                                                                                       Results Analysis


licences, and renewed 306 land agent licences. The current standard processing time for licensing is 20
working days for renewals, and 30 working days for new licences. In 2024-25, the ministry surpassed the
standard with an average of 8.5 working days to process a renewal, and 14 working days to process a new
licence application.
In 2024-25, the Land Agent Licensing Office began engaging with land agents and post-secondary institutions
on the creation of new land agent licensing examinations based on the revision of the Reference Manual for
Alberta Land Agents that took place in the previous year. In 2023-24, Advanced Education also waived the
requirement to complete the Registrar’s Course as a condition on interim land agent licences until a new
course was developed. This removed the barrier of interim land agents who were waiting to complete the
course prior to applying to become permanent land agents. Advanced Education continues to seek an
education option to replace the Registrar’s Course.
Advanced Education is committed to maintaining program standards and compliance, while reducing
unnecessary barriers in the occupation. It will continue to streamline its policies, and processes to reduce
administrative burdens for licensed land agents and applicants and will work to ensure its materials and exams
are reflective of current practice.

Fairness for Newcomers Office
The Fairness for Newcomers Office works with Alberta regulatory bodies to ensure that registration
processes align with the Fair Registration Practices Act. The Act is an oversight legislation that requires Alberta
regulatory bodies to carry out registration practices that are transparent, objective, impartial                  , and procedurally
fair. The legislation also ensures qualified applicants who require a licence or certificate to practice in a
regulated profession or trade in Alberta can have their credentials recognized in a timely manner to fully
participate in Alberta’s economy.
In June 2024, Bill 203 came into force establishing the Foreign Credential Advisory Committee, with the
mandate to review legislation that governs the recognition of foreign credentials in Alberta                     , evaluate the
process in place in other jurisdictions in Canada, and make recommendations to the Minister. The ministry
has four appointed representatives on the Foreign Credential Advisory Committee and is supporting the
Ministry of Immigration and Multiculturalism by delivering Fairness for Newcomers Office pres                           entations in
response to information requested by the committee, providing technical briefings regarding the Fair
Registration Practices Act, and inviting the committee to the 2024 Promising Practices event.

Promising Practices for Alberta Regulatory Bodies
Advanced Education spent approximately $9,900 toward the annual Promising Practices for Alberta
Regulatory Bodies event held on October 2, 2024, in Edmonton, Alberta. This event included working with
the Ministry of Technology and Innovation to provide information on possible uses of artificial intelligence
to improve and speed up registration processes and application assessments. This was in direct response to
requests received from regulators. At the event, several Alberta regulatory bodies shared how they
implemented and enhanced registration practices in their organizations and continue to build on
credentialling and other registration process enhancements.
Through engagements with regulatory bodies, the ministry will continue to monitor challenges and explore
opportunities to streamline processes for registration in Alberta, for both internationally trained and domestic
applicants.











Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                             51

---PDF PAGE 54---
Results Analysis


Premier’s Summit on Fairness for Newcomers
The Premier’s Summit on Fairness for Newcomers brings together stakeholders from across Alberta to
discuss actions to support newcomer success and drive economic growth. The summit held on
October 16, 2024, at an approximate cost of $111,000, with the theme “Celebrating Trades and Professions
in Alberta” was attended by approximately 400 invitees. The invitation was expanded to include more diverse
community organizations, immigrant-serving organizations, trade unions, post-secondary institutions,
regulatory bodies, employers, trade associations, rural communities, and others.
The event consisted of three panels exploring the summit’s theme. A Newcomer Experience Panel featured
newcomers sharing stories and reflections on how they built successful careers in Alberta. A Trades Union
Panel provided information on supports for newcomers interested in the trades, and featured success stories.
A Business Best Practices Panel featured employers and industry sharing best practices                     for attracting,
retaining and supporting newcomers in the workplace. The summit also included networking sessions that
provided participants with opportunities to increase their awareness of the various supports available from
Alberta’s Polytechnic institutions, immigrant serving organizations, and the Government of Alberta.

Labour Mobility Act
The Labour Mobility Act and Labour Mobility Regulation came into force on April 6, 2023. The Act helps
highly skilled Canadian certified professional certify easily and quickly in Alberta by streamlining
documentation requirements and implementing legislated timelines for registration decisions. The Act also
ensures that a certified worker currently registered in another Canadian jurisdiction can apply to an Alberta
regulator that regulates the same occupation without having to meet additional education, assessment,
training, or experience requirements. Alberta is also a signatory to two domestic trade agreements: the
Canadian Free Trade Agreement (CFTA) between the federal government and all provinces and territories,
and the New West Partnership Trade Agreement (NWPTA) between British Columbia, Alberta,
Saskatchewan, and Manitoba. Alberta has labour mobility obligations under both trade agreements that the
province must abide by.
Alberta’s Labour Mobility Act sets out legislated timelines for Alberta regulatory bodies to make registration
decisions and reduces administrative burdens for applicants by prohibiting the reassessing of education,
training, and/or work experience of an already certified professional seeking to register. It also limits the
documentation Alberta regulatory bodies can request of labour mobility applicants. Alberta’s Labour Mobility
Coordinator works with Alberta regulatory bodies to ensure compliance with legislation and represents
Alberta on the Labour Mobility Working Group.
Since the introduction of the Act, the Labour Mobility Coordinator has received an increase in inquiries from
already certified out-of-province workers looking to work in Alberta. The data collected through the Alberta
Labour Mobility Survey provides a snapshot of labour mobility within a given year and enables the ministry
to make evidence-based policy decisions. The 2022 Alberta Labour Mobility Survey Report was compiled
after surveying all Alberta regulatory bodies on the number of out-of-province certified workers transferring
to Alberta, and regulatory body average processing times for applications. The average processing time for
certified out-of-province applicants from submission of a complete application to receiving certification/
registration is seven business days, which is well within service standards. The survey results also found that
25 per cent of all new domestic applications (first-time applicants and out-of-province applicants) for all
regulated occupations in Alberta were from out-of-province certified individuals transferring to Alberta.

Percentage of Out-of-Province Certified Workers Applying for Certification in Alberta

          2018                      2019                      2020                      2021                       2022
          21%                       21%                       30%                       26%                       25%




52                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 55---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


Domestic Trade Agreements
In 2024-25, Alberta’s participation in domestic trade agreements saw continuing efforts on numerous fronts,
including updating legitimate objectives, surveying Alberta’s regulatory bodies, participation in the Pan-
Canadian Labour Mobility Working Group, and addressing complaints from out-of-province workers seeking
recognition in Alberta, or Alberta workers transferring out-of-province. Tariffs imposed by the United States
have enhanced the focus on labour mobility, and expedited efforts between the federal, provincial, and
territorial governments to reduce impediments for already certified Canadian workers seeking to have their
credentials recognized. In a meeting on March 4, 2025, the First Ministers agreed to build on the foundational
work of the Committee on Internal Trade to reduce barriers to internal trade and labour mobility across the
country.
Advanced Education continued to participate in the Pan-Canadian Labour Mobility Working Group in
2024-25. The ministry presented information to the working group on digital certification developed to
facilitate the recognition of non-Red Seal Certificates of Qualification for tradespersons in Alberta. The
ministry also presented information on Alberta’s labour mobility legislative requirements.
Advanced Education will continue to monitor Alberta regulatory body compliance with the Labour Mobility
Act and administer the labour mobility survey to monitor trends. Alberta will continue to be a leader in labour
mobility through its efforts in supporting federal, provincial, and territorial activities under the Pan-Canadian
Labour Mobility Working Group, such as providing expertise and advice on implementation of service
standards and exploring options to implement new tools for digital certification.

2.2       Attract qualified international students who remain in Alberta and contribute to the
          economy and society.

International Education Strategy
Alberta’s International Education Strategy for Post-Secondary Education was approved by Cabinet in
February 2020, with an ongoing annual budget of $1.5 million for its implementation. The strategy provides
strategic direction to the province’s post-secondary system on international education, and creates a blueprint
for attracting, retaining, and developing global talent. This helps Alberta achieve economic priorities by
encouraging economic diversification, facilitating trade and investment attraction, and expanding market
access for exporting Alberta goods and services. International education also allows post-secondary
institutions to generate revenue by exporting education services to corporate, international, and multi-national
clients.
Advanced Education worked with the Southern Alberta Institute of Technology (SAIT) to establish the
Alberta Bureau for International Education (ABIE) as a board-governed, not-for-profit organization that will
work in partnership with Advanced Education and post-secondary institutions to continue growing Alberta’s
international education sector. In October 2024, Advanced Education, SAIT, and ABIE executed a tripartite
grant agreement for $1.2 million to support ABIE’s activities in 2024-25.
In March 2023, Advanced Education partnered with the University of Calgary to deliver a key action under
the International Education Strategy by developing an online toolkit of resources to support post-secondary
institutions in developing and administering their own study abroad programs, and to continue investing in
international education programs that align with key markets. This toolkit will help build capacity in Alberta’s
post-secondary system, particularly at smaller and rural institutions, and support institutions in building more
international learning opportunities for Alberta students. The University of Calgary expects to finalize the
project in 2025.
In collaboration with EduCanada and the Government of Canada, the ministry also provided $17,100 in
2024-25 to fund a booth at the National Association of Foreign Student Advisers (NAFSA) 2024:




Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           53

---PDF PAGE 56---
Results Analysis


Association of International Educators Conference in New Orleans, USA, to profile Alberta post                           -secondary
institutions at the world’s largest gathering of international education professionals. Advanced Education also
supported Alberta post-secondary institutions in the European Association for International Education
(EAIE) in Toulouse, France, in Fall 2024.
In September 2024, Minister Sawhney travelled to Ireland, Germany, and France to meet with post-secondary
institutions, government leaders and industry organizations to learn from their experiences and promote
Alberta as a world leader in post-secondary education, skilled trades, and research and innovation. In addition
to EAIE, Minister Sawhney also attended the WorldSkills Competition in Lyon, France.
Advanced Education will continue to develop international branding and outreach activities and work closely
with ABIE to further develop the organization’s role within the international education sector in Alberta. The
University of Calgary will also continue to work on the international learning toolkit, including engagement
with employers across Alberta.

Internationally Educated Nurses
As part of government’s broader strategy to build capacity in the health                  care system, Advanced Education is
supporting internationally educated nurses to obtain              a licence to practice in Alberta by creating new and
expanding bridging programs. The Bursary for Internationally Educated Nurses provide funding for
education costs, living expenses and certification costs to internationally educated nurses as they complete
bridging training to practice as a Licensed Practical Nurse or a Registered Nurse, in exchange for a period of
time spent working in rural Alberta.
In 2024-25, Advanced Education provided more than $5                    million to continue to support seat creation in new
and existing bridging programs to assist internationally educated nurses with obtaining a nursing license to
practice in Alberta’s health care system.         This funding was split with over $2 million supporting year three of
the seat expansion, and nearly $3 million supporting year two of the program expansion.                        Although the grant
year runs from July 2024 to June 2025, quarterly reporting from participating in                   stitutions indicates there are
approximately 188 new enrolments in funded programs in 2024                    -25, which is 40 per cent of the combined
target of about 471. There were changes to the combined seat target for 2024                    -25 resulting from grant funding
reallocations. Results for the seat expansion will be available            once the 2024-25 grant year ends, and results for
the program expansion will be available after the 2025             -26 grant year, with the exception of some nursing
expansions funded through grant reallocations that w              ill extend beyond these dates.
Advanced Education entered into an agreement with the Rural Health Professions Action Plan to administer
the Bursary for Internationally Educated Nurses and the associated rural return in service starting
January 1, 2023. From August 1, 2023, to July 31, 2024, 134 students were funded at a total cost of more than
$3.5 million, or $26,234 per student. The current academic year began on August 1, 2024, and the final
reports will be available after the end of the academic year on July 31, 2025. Since August 1, 2024, 123
students have been approved for bursary with the total amount committed totaling nearly $3 million, or
$23,978 per student. From the bursary’s inception on January 1, 2023, more than 330 students have been
funded and signed return in service agreements to work in rural locations. The 2024-25 allocation for the
bursary was $7.8 million, but the actual spending is expected to be lower due to reduced uptake of bridging
programs. Final expenditure reporting will not be available until after July 31, 2025.
Grant funding in the amount of $97,967 was provided to the College of Registered Psychiatric Nurses of
Alberta (CRPNA) for exploratory work on improving the registration pathway for internationally educated
nurses from the United Kingdom, Nigeria, and Ireland. These three countries represent approximately
96 per cent of the applicants applying to the CRPNA. The grant project consists of two parts: the first will
engage curriculum experts to create a framework identifying educational gaps in psychiatric nursing programs
in the three source countries; the second will establish an online portal allowing applicants from these





54                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 57---
                                                                                                                      Results Analysis


countries to self-assess their educational gaps and streamline document submission prior to arrival. Reporting
on the CRPNA grant funding will be provided in 2025.
Overall, Alberta has experienced an increase in the number of registered nurses licensed to practice in the
province. Advanced Education will continue working with regulatory bodies in expediting registration
pathways in Alberta. The ministry is also closely monitoring the progress of internationally educated nurses
enrolment expansion initiatives and is working with institutions to support them in reaching their targets, or
to redirect funding to other nursing/health care programs with higher student demand where needed. To
date, the ministry has approved five requests to reallocate funds under the two grants and may receive more
requests if low enrolment continues.

Aligning with Canada’s International Student Program
Under the Government of Canada’s International Student Program, post-secondary institutions must be
designated to accept and enrol international students. Alberta designates learning institutions under the
Alberta Designation Requirements policy, which outlines the designation process and eligibility requirements
for designation in Alberta, in alignment with the Federal government’s International Student Program.
Publicly funded post-secondary institutions are designated by institution, and private learning institutions by
specific programs. Institutions sign five-year designation agreements that require them to comply with
governing legislation(s) in respect to their institution or program type, such as the Post-secondary Learning Act or
the Private Vocational Training Regulation, and only to enroll international students in programs that are
ministry-approved or accredited by a ministry-recognized, third-party, quality oversight body. Institutions
must also adopt policies and put procedures in place that provide financial protection of international
students, establish appropriate admission requirements, and provide services and supports to international
students. Alberta established a Memorandum of Understanding with the federal government in 2014 to carry
out obligations of the Alberta Designation Requirements. In December 2024, the memorandum was
extended to December 31, 2026.
Advanced Education currently has 120 designated learning institutions in both public and private sectors
including:
     •    26 universities, colleges, and polytechnics subject to the Post-secondary Learning Act (PSLA),
     •    59 private career colleges,
     •    12 faith-based institutions,
     •    10 flight training schools,
     •    nine language programs and schools,
     •    two professional schools,
     •    one international provider operating under a public-private partnership, and
     •    one other private institution.
In 2024, 53 designation agreements were set to expire and required renewal, two of these agreements were
not renewed by the learning institution’s choice, and the remaining 51 agreements were renewed throughout
April and May 2024. The designation process ensures that all international students coming to study in
Alberta have adequate support and receive a quality education and safeguards Alberta’s reputation
internationally.

International Students Program Changes
On January 22, 2024, Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) announced a national cap on
international study permit applications, due to rapid increases in the number of international students arriving
in certain provinces and territories, which increased pressure on visa processing systems, housing availability,
health care, and other services. The cap that will be in effect from 2024 to at least 2026 is divided among




Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                            55

---PDF PAGE 58---
Results Analysis


provinces and territories, and each province and territory will be responsible for distributing its allocation
among its public and private designated learning institutions. This shift in federal policy required Advanced
Education to focus efforts on implementing the federal cap in Alberta. As a result of the cap, which was
extended in 2025, international applications declined across all post-secondary institutions. As a result of this
shift, coupled with changes announced to the Post-Graduate Work Permit Program, Canada is now a less
attractive destination for international students due to uncertainty in the sector. Interest in studying in Canada
and its jurisdictions has also declined.
As of January 22, 2024, in addition to a Letter of Acceptance from a designated learning institution, every
study permit application submitted to IRCC requires a Provincial Attestation Letter issued by the province or
territories. These letters are the method by which each province and territory confirms that a study permit
applicant falls within its allocation of international students, as determined by the federal government. In
response, Advanced Education launched the Provincial Attestation Letter Portal in partnership with the
Ministry of Technology and Innovation in April 2024. The portal provides a self-serve option for most
designated learning institutions to submit requests for provincial attestation letters. The portal generates the
letters based on the information provided by the institution. Through the portal, institutions can download
the letters and provide them to their prospective international students to be included in their study permit
applications to the federal government. In 2024-25, the portal issued 26,089 provincial attestation letters to
designated learning institutions. Frequent changes to provincial attestation letter requirements made by IRCC
often requires updates to the portal, which can be time sensitive as they are responding to newly announced
federal requirements. Advanced Education has prioritized making the updates quickly to ensure there is no
disruption for institutions, and for prospective international students who need a letter to apply for a study
permit. From April 1, 2024 to July 8, 2024, Advanced Education spent a total of $200,000 towards the
development of the Provincial Attestation Letter Portal. Alberta was the first jurisdiction in Canada to have a
functioning Provincial Attestation Letters system. The ministry’s expedient system development and
implementation worked to limit the impact to Alberta institutions caused by new federal requirements.

2.3       Increase and accelerate auto-credentialing for workers from national and
          international jurisdictions with similar standards, particularly for those in professions
          with high labour market demand.

Acceleration of Registration Processes
Advanced Education is committed to increasing and accelerating credentialling for workers from national and
international jurisdictions with similar standards and is working with the Ministry of Health to develop
streamlined credentialing for front-line health care workers, doctors, nurses, and paramedics.
On October 2, 2024, the Promising Practices for Alberta Regulatory Bodies event took place in Edmonton,
Alberta. Several Alberta regulatory bodies also shared how they have implemented and enhanced registration
practices in their organizations and continue to build on credentialling and other registration process
enhancements (see page 51 for additional details).
Advanced Education will continue collaborating with the Ministries of Health, and Immigration and
Multiculturalism, as well as Alberta regulatory bodies to streamline and speed up registration processes. The
ministry will continue to advance credentialing efforts and support the committee by reviewing the
recommendations report for registration improvements in Summer 2025, hosting the 2025 Promising
Practices and Premier’s Summit on Fairness for Newcomers events, and exploring limiting the use of
Canadian work experience in Alberta’s registration and assessment processes for regulated occupations.










56                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 59---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


International Credential Recognition and Post-journeyperson Certification MOU
In 2024-25, Advanced Education shared information and research with the Province of Ontario on programs
in other countries for the purposes of certificate recognition and credentialling. The objective of the
International Credential Recognition and Post-journeyperson Certification Memorandum of Understanding is
to reduce barriers for individuals coming to Canada from international destinations to work in the skilled
trades in Alberta, and to support journeypersons who wish to upskill in other areas to continue their career
journey Advanced Education will continue to reach out to other countries to assess willingness and viability
of reciprocal credential recognition for high demand trades. The ministry has also identified potential partners
and will be working with them to initiate the recognition process. The ministry will also work closely with the
Canadian Council of Directors of Apprenticeship as they roll out a similar project in July                    2025.
































































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           57

---PDF PAGE 60---
Results Analysis

Performance Metrics

Performance Indicator 2.a:
          Average processing time (business days) for domestic applicants who apply to a
          regulatory body in Alberta























This metric shows the average number of business days it takes for regulatory bodies in Alberta to process
applications, from an applicant submitting a complete application to receiving certification/licensure. The
results are presented for two groups of applicants:
     •    certified out-of-province applicants: applicants who applied to obtain Alberta certification/licence
          based on their existing certification/licence from another province/territory in Canada, and
     •    first-time applicants: applicants who were trained in Canada but have never been previously
          certified/licensed in this occupation anywhere in Canada and are applying to Alberta for first-time
          certification.
Results exclude those in trades occupations as data on out-of-province trades workers is not collected by the
regulatory body for trades in Alberta. Internationally trained/certified applicants, licence renewals, students,
and other applicant types (e.g., interns, provisional or in-training applicants) are also excluded.
The metric speaks to the efficacy and efficiency of the certification/licensing process with the goal of
ensuring out-of-province credentials are recognized in a timely manner to address the province’s labour
market demand. However, processing time is heavily influenced by the volume of applications received.

Results Analysis
In 2022 (latest data available), Alberta’s regulatory bodies reported that the average processing time was seven
business days for certified out-of-province applications and 14 business days for first time applications. The
average processing time in 2022 increased for both groups in comparison to 2021. Specifically, it increased by
one business day (about 17 per cent) for certified out-of-province applicants and increased by six business
days (about 75 per cent) for first-time applicants.
Major factors that affected the amount of time it takes to process out                -of-province applications include:





58                                                                                    Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 61---
                                                                                                                       Results Analysis


     •    confirmation/completion of supporting documents,
     •    verification of certificate/licence and standing from the home jurisdiction,
     •    availability of staff, volunteers, and/or committee members to process and make application
          decisions,
     •    volume of applications received for processing,
     •    time required to receive criminal background and vulnerable sector checks,
     •    confirmation of the applicant’s scope of practice, and
     •    scheduling and marking of jurisprudence exams.
The Labour Mobility Act and Regulation were proclaimed and came into force on April 6, 2023, enabling highly
skilled certified professional workers, in regulated occupations, from across Canada to bring their expertise to
Alberta. The 2023 Alberta Labour Mobility Survey will include new questions to capture data on processing
times in accordance with the timelines for registration identified in the Labour Mobility Act. Monitoring of
these timelines will assist the Labour Mobility Office in identifying any remaining impediments to registration.
Alberta’s regulatory bodies are processing applications for certified out-of-province applicants and first-time
applicants trained in Canada well within service standards. In 2022, application processing time for out-of-
province certified workers in 18 occupations took two days or less on average.

Notes
     •    The 2023 results will be reported in the 2025-26 Advanced Education Annual Report.
     •    For more detail on the results, see Alberta Labour Mobility Survey Reports.
          https://open.alberta.ca/publications/alberta-labour-mobility-survey














































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                             59

---PDF PAGE 62---
Results Analysis


Performance Indicator 2.b:
          Certified out-of-province applicants applying to a regulatory body in Alberta









This metric (also referred to as the labour mobility rate) shows the total number of certified out-of-province
applicants in regulated occupations who applied to obtain Alberta certification/licence based on their existing
certification/licence from anothe         r province/territory in Canada, as a percentage of the total number of
domestic applicants applying to a regulatory body in Alberta. Domestic applicants include both certified out                            -
of-province applicants and first-time applicants who were trained in Canada but have never been previously
certified/licensed in this occupation anywhere in Canada. Results exclude applicants in trades occupations, as
data on out-of-province trades workers is not collected by the regulatory body for trades in Alberta.
Internationally trained/certified applicants, licence renewals, students, and other types of applicants (e.g.,
interns, provisional or in-training applicants) are also excluded.
This metric provides insight into the proportion of certified out-of-province workers in regulated occupations
applying for registration in Alberta and the composition of the labour market supply for domestic skilled
workers in the province. It speaks to t         he ministry’s effort in improving labour mobility and recognition of
out-of-province qualifications to enable highly skilled certified professional workers, in regulated occupations,
from across Canada to bring their expertise to Alberta, no matter where i                   n the country they received their
certification.

Results Analysis
In 2022 (latest data available), Alberta’s regulatory bodies reported that 25                 per cent of the total domestic
applicants in regulated occupations were certified out             -of-province applicants. This result was one percentage
point lower than the result in 2021 and five percentage points lower than the result in 2020. However, it was
higher than the results observed in 2018 and 2019.
























60                                                                                     Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 63---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


The change between 2021 and 2022 represented an increase in the number of certified out-of-province
applicants and an increase in the number of first          -time applicants at the aggregate level. In 2022, the number
of certified out-of-province applicants increased by 22 per cent from 2021 and was the highest over the last
five reporting years. The number of first-time applicants increased by approximately 23 per cent from 2021,
second from the peak in 2019.
The COVID-19 pandemic hindered the movement of certified workers, which might have impacted the 2020
and 2021 results. In 2022, results showed a significant increase due to the recovery from the COVID-19
pandemic.

Notes
     •    The 2023 results will be reported in the 2025-26 Advanced Education Annual Report.
     •    For more detail on the results, see Alberta Labour Mobility Survey Reports.
          https://open.alberta.ca/publications/alberta-labour-mobility-survey





























































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           61

---PDF PAGE 64---
Results Analysis

Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology

Performance Measure 1.a
          Total domestic learners enrolled in approved programs offered by Alberta’s publicly
          funded post-secondary institutions
Source
     •    Learner Enrolment Reporting System, Advanced Education
Total domestic enrolment (headcount) is defined as the total number of unique (unduplicated) domestic
learners who are actively enrolled (either full-time or part-time) in an approved program offered by a publicly
funded post-secondary institution in Alberta at any point during an academic year. Domestic learners are
defined as those with the following legal status values at some point during the academic year: Canadian,
permanent resident, refugee, and unknown/not reported. These are all grouped as domesti                       c, as all learners
with these legal status values would be treated as residents with regard to many matters such as loan eligibility,
tuition, and fees.
Enrolment data is submitted to Advanced Education by each of the publicly funded post-secondary
institutions. Data is reviewed and validated until both the department and the institution are in agreement.
Apprenticeship data, related to the classroom instruction portion of the enrolment, is then added to each
institutional submission. Apprenticeship data is derived from the Apprenticeship, Trade and Occupation
Management System. Prior to appending this data, it is validated and confirmed as accurate.
Advanced Education completes a final review prior to sending a sign-off package to the institutions. The
package is then signed off by each institution’s vice president before being considered final. Enrolment data is
used for reporting and publications after all institutions have finalized their submissions.
Unique counts are calculated using the Alberta Student Number (ASN), so that students attending more than
one institution will be counted only once at the system level. For records without ASN values, a combination
of the provider and institutional student ID is used. Total enrolment (headcount) is calculated by taking a
unique count of the number of ASN values (including proxy values for records without ASNs) with active
enrolment records at all institutions during the academic year.
Enrolment data includes only provincially approved programming at publicly funded post                       -secondary
institutions in Alberta. The enrolment headcount at Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity is excluded from this
metric, as it does not offer any ministry approved programming.



























62                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 65---
                                                                                                                    Results Analysis


Performance Indicator 1.b
          Percentage of post-secondary graduates who report being employed approximately
          two years after graduation (biennial survey)
Source
     •    Graduate Outcomes Survey, Advanced Education
This survey is conducted biennially with graduates approximately two years after their graduation from a
publicly funded post-secondary institution in Alberta (except Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity). The 2024
survey was conducted with 2021-22 graduates. An independent consultant (CCI Research Inc.) was hired to
conduct and report on the 2024 survey.
The target participants for this metric are graduates (both domestic and international) from publicly funded
post-secondary institutions (credit parchment programs only) in Alberta. Apprenticeship students who
completed the classroom instruction portion of their apprenticeship program at a publicly funded post-
secondary institution are excluded.
A census approach was used for publicly funded post-secondary institutions with fewer than 1,500 graduates
and a stratified sampling approach was used for institutions with 1,500 graduates or more. Data was collected
through telephone or an online survey, based on participants’ preference. Based on the sampling population
of 46,385 (after removing duplicates), 15,761 surveys were completed, including 1,594 by telephone and
14,167 online. The gross response rate was 34 per cent. At the system level, the survey’s margin of error was
±0.63 per cent at the 95 per cent confidence level.
Results for this metric are determined using multiple survey questions regarding respondents’ employment
status, studying status, and job seeking activities. Excluded from the calculation of results are graduates who
were not looking for jobs at the time of the survey, those who reported being full-time students or unsure of
their student status, and those who responded, “Don’t know” or “Prefer not to say.” The percentage is
calculated by dividing the number of respondents who reported being employed (including self-employment)
by the total number of respondents who reported being in the labour force at the time of the survey.
For more detail on the methodology, see the Alberta Graduate Outcomes Survey Report for the Publicly
Funded Post-secondary Institutions, Class of 2021-22. https://open.alberta.ca/publications/results-of-gos-
and-ess-publicly-funded-post-secondary-institutions-class-of-2021-2022































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                          63

---PDF PAGE 66---
Results Analysis


Performance Indicator 1.c
          Percentage of apprenticeship graduates who report being employed (biennial survey)
Source
     •    Apprenticeship Education Survey, Advanced Education
Results for this metric are obtained from the Apprenticeship Education Survey. This is a biennial survey
conducted with first-period apprentices and recent apprenticeship graduates who are asked about their
perceptions and experiences regarding various aspects of their apprenticeship program. Survey results are
used to evaluate and inform apprenticeship policy, programming, and processes. An independent consultant
(Advanis) was hired to conduct the survey.
The target respondents are apprenticeship graduates who completed all the requirements to become a
certified journeyperson in a trade between August 1, 2022 and July 31, 2023.
The survey population provided to the contractor was extracted from the Apprenticeship, Trade and
Occupation Management System. A census approach was used for apprenticeship graduates, meaning that all
graduates of 2022-23 were invited to participate.
The 2024 survey was conducted both online and by telephone between October                       11, 2023, and
January 17, 2024 (with a break for the telephone survey during Christmas and New Year). In total, 2,364
graduates were surveyed (820 by telephone and 1,544 online), resulting in a response rate of 47 per cent. The
margin of error was ±1.5 percentage points at the 95 per cent confidence level. For the 2024 survey cycle, the
graduates’ response rate has rebounded to pre COVID-19 levels.
The percentage of recent apprenticeship graduates employed is determined using the survey question “Which
of the following categories best describes your current employment status?” Answers provided in the survey
included: “Employed,” “Not employed, but looking for work,” “Not employed, and not looking for work,”
“Don’t know,” and “Refused/prefer not to answer.” The result is calculated by dividing the total number of
respondents who answered “Employed” by the combined total of “Employed” and “Not employed, but
looking for work” responses. The “Not employed, and not looking for work,” “Don’t know” and
“Refused/prefer not to answer” responses are excluded from the calculation.
For more detail on the methodology, see the 2024 Apprenticeship Education Survey Summary Report.
https://open.alberta.ca/publications/apprenticeship-education-survey-summary-report































64                                                                                 Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 67---
                                                                                                                     Results Analysis


Performance Indicator 2.a:
          Average processing time (business days) for domestic applicants who apply to a
          regulatory body in Alberta
Source
     •    Alberta Labour Mobility Survey, Advanced Education
This survey is conducted annually by the Ministry of Advanced Education (formerly the Ministry of Labour
and Immigration) with regulatory bodies in Alberta. The 2022 survey was emailed to all regulatory bodies in
Alberta, representing more than 100 regulated occupations, of which 100 per cent responded. The survey
collected information related to fully certified workers for the period January 1 to December 31, 2022.
Interns, provisional or in-training applicants, students, renewals, trades occupations, and internationally
certified applicants are excluded.
Results for this metric are determined based on survey questions asking about the average number of
business days to process complete applications for the following applicants:
     •    Alberta/Canada-trained first-time applicants who have never been previously certified/licensed
          anywhere in Canada, and
     •    certified out-of-province applicants who have already been certified/licensed in another province or
          territory in Canada and are seeking to become registered in Alberta.
The results are calculated by taking the average number of business days for first-time applicants and
out-of-province applicants separately and then removing any outliers that did not fall within three standard
deviations from the average. In a normal dis          tribution, 99.7 per cent of the population falls within three
standard deviations.
For more detail on the methodology, see Alberta Labour Mobility Survey Reports.
https://open.alberta.ca/publications/alberta           -labour-mobility-survey







































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                           65

---PDF PAGE 68---
Results Analysis


Performance Indicator 2.b:
          Certified out-of-province applicants applying to a regulatory body in Alberta
Source
     •    Alberta Labour Mobility Survey, Advanced Education
This survey is conducted annually by the Ministry of Advanced Education (formerly the Ministry of Labour
and Immigration) with regulatory bodies in Alberta. The 2022 survey was emailed to all regulatory bodies in
Alberta, representing over 100 regulated occupations, of which 100 per cent responded. The survey collected
information related to fully certified workers for the period January 1 to December 31, 2022. Interns,
provisional or in-training applicants, students, renewals, trades occupations, and internationally certified
applicants are excluded.
Results for this metric are determined based on survey questions asking about:
     •    the number of certified out-of-province applicants who applied to obtain Alberta
          certification/licence based on their existing certification/licence from another province/territory in
          Canada, and
     •    the number of first-time applicants who were trained in Canada but have never been previously
          certified/licensed in this occupation anywhere in Canada.
The results are calculated by dividing the total number of certified out-of-province applicants by the total
number of domestic applicants, which include both certified out                -of-province and first-time applicants
applying to the regulatory body in Alberta.
For more detail on the methodology, see Alberta Labour Mobility Survey Reports.
https://open.alberta.ca/publications/alberta-labour-mobility-survey










































66                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 69---
                                                                                                                           Financial Information

Financial Information
Year Ended March 31, 2025

     Reporting Entity and Method of Consolidation .....................................................................68

     Ministry Financial Highlights ................................................................              ................................69

           Statement of Revenues and Expenses (unaudited) ................................                                .......................69

           Revenue and Expense Highlights ................................                     ..................................................70

     Supplemental Financial Information ................................                     ....................................................76

           Student Aid (unaudited) ................................             .................................................................76

           Tangible Capital Assets (unaudited) ..............................................................................78

           Portfolio Investments (unaudited) ................................                  ..................................................79

     Financial Statements of Other Reporting Entities ................................                           ................................81

           Summary of Subsidiaries Financial Statements (unaudited) ................................                                   ..........81

     Other Financial Information ................................               .................................................................96

           Statement of Credit or Recovery (unaudited) ................................                         .................................97

           Statement of Remissions, Compromises and Write-offs (unaudited) .............................                                        98

           Statement of Guarantees and Indemnities given by the Crown and Provincial
           Corporations (unaudited) ...............................................................................................             99

           Lapse / Encumbrance (unaudited) ................................                     ............................................... 100

           Funding to Post-Secondary Institutions (unaudited) .................................................... 102


























Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                        67

---PDF PAGE 70---
Financial Information

Reporting Entity and Method of Consolidation
The financial information is prepared in accordance with government’s stated accounting policies, which are
based on Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.
The reporting entity is the Ministry of Advanced Education, for which the Minister is accountable. The
accounts of the ministry, which includes the department and the entities making up the ministry, are
consolidated using the line-by-line method, except those designated as governmen                     t business enterprises
(GBEs).
Under this method, accounting policies of the consolidated entities are adjusted to conform to those of the
government and the results of each line item in their financial statements (revenue, expense, assets, and
liabilities) are included in government’s results. Revenue and expense, capital, investing and financing
transactions and related asset and liability balances between the consolidated entities have been eliminated.
GBEs are accounted for on a modified equity basis, with the equity being computed in accordance with the
accounting standards applicable to those entities. Under the modified equity method, the accounting policies
of the GBEs are not adjusted to conform to             those of the government. Inter        -entity revenue and expense
transactions and related asset and liability balances are not eliminated.
A list of the individual entities making up the ministry are shown on the “Management’s Responsibility for
Reporting” statement included in this annual report.


















































68                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 71---
                                                                                                                                                        Financial Information

Ministry Financial Highlights
Statement of Revenues and Expenses (unaudited)
Year Ended March 31, 2025

(in thousands)
                                                                                     2025                       2024                 Change From


                                                                           Budget            Actual            Actual           Budget            Actual

Revenues
   Government Transfers
       Internal Government Transfers                                   $     358,263     $     379,422    $     369,935     $      21,159     $       9,487
       Federal Government Grants                                             686,339           666,071          654,192           (20,268)           11,879
   Investment Income                                                         416,188           599,708          495,161           183,520           104,547
   Net Loss from Government Business Enterprises                                    —            (9,043)          (1,614)           (9,043)           (7,429)
   Premiums, Fees and Licences                                                  4,085            5,191             4,711             1,106               480
   Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                          1,998,965        2,058,264         1,835,513            59,299           222,751
   Sales, Rentals and Services                                               532,958           758,559          700,361           225,601            58,198
   Donations, Grants and Contributions                                       439,567           529,611          507,046            90,044            22,565
   Other Revenue                                                             173,312           229,857            62,724           56,545           167,133
   Ministry Total                                                          4,609,677        5,217,640         4,628,029           607,963           589,611
   Inter-ministry Consolidation Adjustments                                 (419,343)         (441,285)        (422,708)          (21,942)          (18,577)
Adjusted Ministry Total                                                    4,190,334        4,776,355         4,205,321           586,021           571,034

Expenses Directly Incurred
   Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                      6,427,356        6,654,287         6,219,504           226,931           434,783
   Department
       Ministry Support Services                                              14,936            14,612            13,985              (324)              627
       Support for Adult Learning                                             55,297            56,056            52,086               759            3,970
       Private Career Colleges and Student Aid                               393,677           351,490          430,123           (42,187)          (78,633)
       Regulated Professions                                                    1,658            2,258             2,124               600               134
       Apprenticeship                                                         57,303            63,410            43,952             6,107           19,458
       Foundational Learning                                                 139,638            98,564          122,483           (41,074)          (23,919)
   Ministry Total                                                          7,089,865        7,240,677         6,884,257           150,812           356,420
   Inter-ministry Consolidation Adjustments                                  (87,340)          (91,485)        (101,860)            (4,145)          10,375
Adjusted Ministry Total                                                    7,002,525        7,149,192         6,782,397           146,667           366,795

Annual Deficit                                                            (2,480,188)       (2,023,037)      (2,256,228)          457,151           233,191
   Inter-ministry Consolidation Adjustments                                 (332,003)         (349,800)        (320,848)          (17,797)          (28,952)

Adjusted Annual Deficit                                                $  (2,812,191)    $  (2,372,837)   $  (2,577,076)    $     439,354     $     204,239


















Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                          69

---PDF PAGE 72---
Financial Information

Revenue and Expense Highlights
Revenues (unaudited)
•   Total revenue for the year was $5,217 million, an increase of $590 million or 13 per cent
    from the prior year and $608 million or 13 per cent more than budget.

2025 Actual

(in thousands)
























•   Tuition and Non-Credit Courses revenue is the single largest source of revenue
    representing 39 per cent of total revenue. The $223 million or 12 per cent increase from the
    prior year and $59 million or 3 per cent higher than budget were primarily due to tuition rate
    increases and an increase in enrolment, as well as additional program offerings.
•   Sales, Rentals and Services revenue accounts for 15 per cent of total revenue and is the
    second largest source of revenue. The $58 million or 8 per cent increase from the prior year
    and $226 million or 42 per cent higher than budget were primarily due to increased ancillary
    services revenue, clinical trial revenue and rental income driven by growth in the student
    and employee populations.
•   Federal Government Grants revenue accounts for 13 per cent of total revenue, which
    represents the third largest source of revenue. The $12 million or 2 per cent increase from
    the prior year was primarily due to the increase in restricted research funding for the Post                  -
    Secondary Institutions which was partially offset by a decrease in Labour Market
    Development Agreement and Workforce Development Agreement funding received from the
    Government of Canada compared to the prior year. Federal Government Grants revenue
    was $20 million or 3 per cent less than budget primarily due to reduction in Labour Market
    Transfer Agreement funding received from the Government of Canada.





70                                                                        Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 73---
                                                                                                   Financial Information


•   Investment Income accounts for 12 per cent of total revenue. The $105 million or
    21 per cent increase from the prior year and $184 million or 44 per cent more than budget
    were primarily due to higher Post-Secondary Institutions’ realized gains on sale of
    investments.
•   Donations, Grants and Contributions revenue accounts for 10 per cent of total revenue.
    The $23 million or 4 per cent increase from the prior year was due to increased restricted
    research donations. Donations, grants and contributions was $90 million or 20 per cent
    more than budget, primarily due to higher than expected donations for research.
•   Internal Government Transfers revenue accounts for 7 per cent of total revenue. The
    change from prior year was relatively insignificant. Internal Government Transfers was
    $21 million or 6 per cent more than budget, primarily due to higher than estimated transfers
    from Alberta Innovates to Post-Secondary Institutions mostly for research related activities.
•   Other Revenues account for 4 per cent of total revenue and includes premiums, fees and
    licenses, net loss from Government Business Enterprises, refunds of prior year
    expenditures, endowment contributions and reinvested income, and other miscellaneous
    revenues. The $160 million or 243 per cent increase from the prior year was primarily due to
    increased endowment contribution and re-invested income. Other Revenues were
    $49 million or 27 per cent higher than budget, primarily due to higher than expected
    endowment contributions and re-invested income.















































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                            71

---PDF PAGE 74---
Financial Information

Expenses (unaudited)
•   Total expenses for the year was $7,241 million, an increase of $356 million or 5 per cent
    from the prior year and $151 million or 2 per cent more than budget.

Expenses by Program (unaudited)

2025 Actual

(in thousands)






















•   Public Post-Secondary Institutions expenses account for 92 per cent of total expenses
    and increased by $435 million or 7 per cent from the prior year. The increase was primarily
    due to higher salaries and wages, and supplies and services expenses. Public post-
    secondary institution expenses were $227 million or 4 per cent more than budget, primarily
    due to an increase in research related expenses and program expansion costs due to
    enrolment growth.
•   Private Career Colleges and Student Aid expenses represent the program delivery costs
    as well as grants, scholarships and awards to students enrolled in the private and public
    post-secondary institutions. These expenses are the second largest category of spending
    and account for 5 per cent of total expenses. The $79 million or 18 per cent decrease from
    the prior year and $42 million or 11 per cent less than budget were primarily due to a
    decrease in Student Loans Provisions expense and lower than expected utilization of
    scholarships and awards.
•   Foundational Learning expenses are the third largest category of spending and account
    for 1 per cent of total expenses. The $24 million or 20 per cent decrease from the prior year
    and $41 million or 29 per cent less than budget were primarily due to reduced expenses in
    Foundational Learning Support benefits resulting from decreased funding from the
    Government of Canada Labour Market Transfer Agreement and a decline in demand from
    high school learners.




72                                                                        Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 75---
                                                                                                     Financial Information


•   Apprenticeship expenses account for 1 per cent of total expenses. The $19 million or
    44 per cent increase from the prior year and $6 million or 11 per cent more than budget
    were primarily due to the early disbursement of many 2025 partnership grants.
•   Other expenses include Ministry Support Services, Support for Adult Learning, Regulated
    Professions which are relatively small and the changes from the prior year and budget were
    not significant.







































































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                              73

---PDF PAGE 76---
Financial Information

Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object (unaudited)

2025 Actual

(in thousands)





















•   Salaries, wages and employee benefits represents the single largest expense, which
    accounts for 56 per cent of total expenses. The $279 million or 7 per cent increase from the
    prior year and $49 million or 1 per cent more than budget were mainly due to salary
    increases, decreased vacant positions and an increase in the number of new positions.
•   Supplies and services accounts for 24 per cent of total expenses. The $148 million or
    9 per cent increase from the prior year was primarily due to an increase in computing
    support and services, professional services including investment management fees and
    research activities. Supplies and services was $300 million or 21 per cent more than budget
    primarily due to an increase in research related expenses and program expansion costs
    resulting from growth in student enrolment.
•   Grants expense accounts for 10 per cent of total expenses. The $9 million or 1 per cent
    decrease from the prior year was primarily due to decreased Student Aid grants. Grants
    expense was $38 million or 5 per cent less than budget, primarily due to reduced expenses
    in Foundational Learning Support benefits resulting from decreased funding from the
    Government of Canada Labour Market Transfer Agreement and a decline in demand from
    high school learners.
•   Amortization of tangible capital assets and purchased intangibles expense accounts
    for 7 per cent of total expenses. Changes from prior year and budget were relatively
    insignificant.
•   Other expenses account for 3 per cent of total expenses and include interest on long-term
    debt, provision for student aid and other miscellaneous expenses. The $75 million or
    25 per cent decrease from the prior year was primarily due to a decrease in student loans






74                                                                        Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 77---
                                                                                                        Financial Information


    provision and pension provision. Other expenses were $151 million or 40 per cent less than
    budget, primarily due to lower than expected inventory consumption and cost of goods sold.
















































































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                 75

---PDF PAGE 78---
Financial Information

Supplemental Financial Information
Student Aid (unaudited)

(in thousands)



















There was a decrease of 29.0 per cent in the Grants mainly due to fewer eligible
students resulting from an operational policy change. An increase of 0.8 per cent in
Scholarship and Awards and 2.3 per cent in Alberta Heritage Scholarship respectively
were mainly due to an increase in eligible students, offset by changes in award program
and an increase in eligible recipients.




































76                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 79---
                                                                                                          Financial Information


Loans Disbursement, Loans Receivable and Provision Expense
    •    Total loans disbursed were $905,328 (2024 - $1,091,406)
    •    Loans repayment was $458,379 (2024 - $343,679)
    •    Total provision expense was $163,086 (2024 – $220,990)

                                           2025        2024

Loans Receivable                        $ 5,945,142 $ 5,547,338
  Less:
    Allowance for Impaired Loans           (857,540)   (759,307)
    Allowance for Loan Subsidy             (133,826)   (130,965)
    Allowance for Repayment Assistance      (17,592)    (16,781)

                                        $ 4,936,184 $ 4,640,285
The department has made certain estimates for the recovery rate, the recall rate, the
rehabilitation rate, the default rate, the blended student lending rate, the annual average
provincial borrowing rate, the average repayment period, and the repayment assistance rate in
the determination of the provision expense.
The impact of changes in estimates would affect the total student loan provision as follows:
    •    An increase or decrease of 0.25 per cent to the default rate would respectively increase
         or decrease the provision by $13,638 (8.36 per cent).
    •    An increase or decrease of 0.25             per cent in the provincial borrowing rate would increase
         or decrease the loan subsidy provision by $14,432 (8.85                     per cent). An increase or
         decrease of 0.25 per cent in the student lending rate would decrease or increase the
         loan subsidy provision by $10,524 (6.45 per cent).
    •    An increase or decrease of 1 per cent in the repayment assistance amounts or loan
         forgiveness rate would have a minimal impact on the calculated provision.


































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                   77

---PDF PAGE 80---
Financial Information

Tangible Capital Assets (unaudited)

Net Book Value as of March 31, 2025

(in thousands)























•   Total net book value for the year was $8,803 million, which increased slightly from the prior
    year.
•   Buildings represent the single largest balance and account for 85                   per cent of total tangible
    capital assets.
•   Tangible capital assets of the Ministry are recognized at historical cost less accumulated
    amortization and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
    assets. Historical cost of total tangible capital assets was $18,629 million and total
    accumulated amortization was $9,826 million for the year.




























78                                                                           Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 81---
                                                                                                                                    Financial Information

Portfolio Investments (unaudited)

(in thousands)

                                                                    2025                           2024

                                                            Cost         Fair Value        Cost         Fair Value

Interest-Bearing Securities
   Deposits and Short-Term Securities                   $    401,494   $    402,769    $    441,274   $    442,096
   Bonds and Mortgages                                     2,203,216      2,177,528       2,083,112      1,994,100

                                                           2,604,710      2,580,297       2,524,386      2,436,196

Equities
   Canadian Equities                                         823,658        978,716         785,789        920,868
   Global Developed Equities                               1,985,066      2,666,799       1,894,606      2,564,296
   Emerging Markets Equities                                 126,591        159,582         135,124        152,335
   Private Equities                                          507,492        639,109         403,296        497,099
   Hedge Funds                                               389,775        615,718         429,185        605,996

                                                           3,832,582      5,059,924       3,648,000      4,740,594

Inflation Sensitive and Alternative Investments
   Real Estate                                               126,155        178,413         111,638        163,582
   Infrastructure                                             73,342          94,398              —              —
   Other Investments                                          78,925          90,260        166,473        180,790

                                                             278,422        363,071         278,111        344,372

Total                                                   $  6,715,714   $  8,003,292    $  6,450,497   $  7,521,162

Breakdown of Portfolio Investments

(in thousands)
                                                 2025                           2024

                                          Cost         Fair Value        Cost        Fair Value

Operating
   Internal Designated Assets1       $          —    $          —   $          —    $          —
   Other Funds and Agencies          $   3,592,056   $  3,912,913   $  3,548,893    $  3,786,212

                                         3,592,056      3,912,913      3,548,893       3,786,212

Endowments                               3,123,658      4,090,379      2,901,604       3,734,950

Total Portfolio Investments          $   6,715,714   $  8,003,292   $  6,450,497    $  7,521,162

1  Internally designated assets are designated in legislation of specific purposes.

•     The total portfolio investments for 2025 was $6,716                                   million at cost and $8,003 million at fair
      market value. Interest-bearing securities and equities are the two largest types of portfolio
      investments. The two combined accounts for 96 per cent of the total portfolio investments.
•     Interest-bearing securities include deposits, short-term securities, bonds and mortgages.
      Equities include Canadian and global equities, emerging market equities, private equities
      and hedge funds. Inflation sensitive and alternative investments include real estate,
      infrastructure, and other investments.






Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                   79

---PDF PAGE 82---
Financial Information


Comparison of Cost to Fair Value as of March 31, 2025

(in thousands)




















•   In 2025, the fair market value of interest bearing securities was lower than cost by
    $25 million or 1 per cent, while the fair market value of equities was significantly greater than
    cost by $1,227 million or 32 per cent. The fair market value of inflation sensitive and
    alternative investment was greater than cost by $85 million or 30 per cent.







































80                                                                              Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 83---
                                                                                                               Financial Information

Financial Statements of Other Reporting Entities
Summary of Subsidiaries Financial Statements (unaudited)

               Comprehensive Academic and Research Universities .............................................82

               Undergraduate Universities .....................................................................................84

               Polytechnic Institutions ................................     ............................................................86

               Comprehensive Community Colleges ......................................................................90

               Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity ................................          .........................................94




























































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                          81

---PDF PAGE 84---
Financial Information

Comprehensive Academic and Research Universities
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                                                                                University of     University of     University of      Athabasca
                                                                                   Alberta           Calgary         Lethbridge        University       2025 Totals       2024 Totals

Statement of Financial Position

   Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments Restricted
   for Endowments
       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                               $       67,400    $     670,249     $      22,467     $      15,134     $     775,250     $     522,635
       Portfolio Investments – Non-Endowments                                      1,546,017           869,535           237,144            77,624         2,730,320         2,749,973
       Investment in Government Business Enterprises                                     (504)          (22,774)                —                 —          (23,278)          (14,296)
       Accounts Receivable                                                           208,585           199,982              5,119             1,773          415,459           345,467
       Inventories for Resale                                                           2,287             6,871               547               617           10,322            17,481
                                                                                   1,823,785         1,723,863           265,277            95,148         3,908,073         3,621,260

   Liabilities
       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                      219,026           214,290            17,765            15,871           466,952           431,969
       Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                           169,203            57,559            25,176              5,935          257,873           311,777
       Debt                                                                          336,502           137,415              4,420                 —          478,337           504,594
       Deferred Operating Contributions                                              814,495           915,924            50,457            28,313         1,809,189         1,668,391
       Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                                          87,243           69,334            26,170                  —          182,747           191,868
       Asset Retirement Obligation                                                   187,159            76,994              5,685                 —          269,838           265,844
                                                                                   1,813,628         1,471,516           129,673            50,119         3,464,936         3,374,443

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) excluding Portfolio                                 10,157          252,347           135,604            45,029           443,137           246,817
   Investments Restricted for Endowments
       Portfolio Investments – Restricted for Endowments                           1,912,949         1,540,467           109,910              5,268        3,568,594         3,240,186

   Net Financial Assets                                                        $   1,923,106     $   1,792,814     $     245,514     $      50,297     $   4,011,731     $   3,487,003

   Non-Financial Assets
       Tangible Capital Assets                                                 $   2,671,098     $   2,094,883     $     476,973     $      36,658     $   5,279,612     $   5,302,485
       Purchased Intangibles                                                         102,222            35,009                  —                 —          137,231           139,658
       Inventories of Supplies                                                              —                 —                41                 —                41                76
       Prepaid Expenses                                                                14,750           18,879              2,318             3,767           39,714            38,116
                                                                                   2,788,070         2,148,771           479,332            40,425         5,456,598         5,480,335

   Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                          4,711,176         3,941,585           724,846            90,722         9,468,329         8,967,338

   Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                            1,849,192         1,428,072           378,839            24,633         3,680,736         3,672,389

   Net Assets                                                                      2,861,984         2,513,513           346,007            66,089         5,787,593         5,294,949

   Net Assets is comprised of:
       Accumulated Surplus                                                     $   2,237,052     $   2,020,908     $     308,584     $      59,347     $   4,625,891     $   4,328,657
       Accumulated Remeasurement Gains                                               624,932           492,605            37,423              6,742        1,161,702           966,292

                                                                               $   2,861,984     $   2,513,513     $     346,007     $      66,089     $   5,787,593     $   5,294,949

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.







82                                                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 85---
                                                                                                                                                        Financial Information







Comprehensive Academic and Research Universities (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                                                                               University of     University of    University of      Athabasca
                                                                                  Alberta          Calgary         Lethbridge        University       2025 Totals       2024 Totals

Statement of Operations
   Revenue                                                                    $   2,098,367     $  1,766,994     $     251,219     $     170,416     $  4,286,996     $   4,014,838
   Expenses                                                                       2,091,576        1,703,278           220,731           164,573        4,180,158         3,945,535
   Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                         85,504           101,830             2,888               174          190,396            51,755

   Annual Surplus                                                             $      92,295     $     165,546    $       33,376    $        6,017    $     297,234    $     121,058

Statement of Cash Flows
   Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                               $      40,127     $     459,451    $       11,120    $      11,937     $     522,635    $     118,430
   Cash Provided by Operating Transactions                                             8,693          265,087             8,094             9,357          291,231          221,728
   Cash Provided by (Applied to) Organizational Activities                           18,580           (54,289)            3,253            (6,160)         (38,616)         182,477

   Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                     $      67,400     $     670,249    $       22,467    $      15,134     $     775,250    $     522,635

Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
   Annual Surplus                                                             $      92,295     $     165,546    $       33,376    $        6,017    $     297,234    $     121,058
   Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                              50,098           171,605            (1,171)            6,962          227,494          291,786

   Increase in Net Financial Assets in the Year                                     142,393           337,151            32,205           12,979           524,728          412,844

   Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                        1,780,713        1,455,663           213,309            37,318        3,487,003         3,074,159

   Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                          $   1,923,106     $  1,792,814     $     245,514     $      50,297     $  4,011,731     $   3,487,003

Salary and Benefits of President Positions
   Base Salary                                                                $          459    $          473   $          397    $          329
   Other Cash Benefits2                                                                     6              107                 6               28
   Non-Cash Benefits3                                                                    194                93              220               215

                                                                              $          659    $          673   $          623    $          572

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.
2  Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).

3  Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance, etc.

























Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                          83

---PDF PAGE 86---
Financial Information

Undergraduate Universities
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                                                                                   Alberta           Alberta
                                                                                University of     University of      MacEwan          Mount Royal
                                                                                   the Arts          the Arts        University        University        March 31,         March 31,
                                                                                  June 30,          June 30,         March 31,         March 31,            2025              2024
                                                                                    2024              2023              2025              2025             Totals            Totals
Statement of Financial Position

   Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments Restricted
   for Endowments
       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                               $       12,472    $       14,965    $      58,880     $      66,025     $     124,905     $     149,261
       Portfolio Investments – Non-Endowments                                           9,542             7,992           50,111           130,862           180,973           180,268
       Accounts Receivable                                                              1,882               533           66,443            13,451            79,894            38,858
       Inventories for Resale                                                             295               275             1,341             1,077             2,418             2,580
                                                                                       24,191            23,765          176,775           211,415           388,190           370,967

   Liabilities
       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                         3,356             3,061           48,052            40,154            88,206            75,644
       Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                                190                 71            6,580             4,065           10,645            10,101
       Debt                                                                                 64                84          45,925            32,830            78,755            87,530
       Deferred Operating Contributions                                                 7,066             6,587           70,462            50,961           121,423           105,560
       Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                                           7,049             6,225             1,922           49,644            51,566            47,794
       Environmental Liability                                                              —                 —             7,379                 —             7,379           11,693
       Asset Retirement Obligations                                                         —                 —               835           27,407            28,242            27,702
                                                                                       17,725            16,028          181,155           205,061           386,216           366,024

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) excluding Portfolio                                  6,466             7,737            (4,380)            6,354             1,974             4,943
   Investments Restricted for Endowments
       Portfolio Investments – Restricted for Endowments                               11,035             9,764           77,971            91,700           169,671           174,511

   Net Financial Assets                                                        $       17,501    $       17,501    $      73,591     $      98,054     $     171,645     $     179,454

   Non-Financial Assets
       Tangible Capital Assets                                                 $       12,935    $       11,756    $     448,097     $     336,938     $     785,035     $     733,588
       Purchased Intangibles                                                                —                 —             3,170               978             4,148             3,524
       Inventories of Supplies                                                            274               287                 —                57                57                58
       Prepaid Expenses                                                                   560               365             7,219             3,907           11,126            10,207
                                                                                       13,769            12,408          458,486           341,880           800,366           747,377

Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                 31,270            29,909          532,077           439,934           972,011           926,831

Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                                   10,268            10,431          132,795           243,406           376,201           365,460

Net Assets                                                                     $       21,002    $       19,478    $     399,282     $     196,528     $     595,810     $     561,371

Net Assets is comprised of:
       Accumulated Surplus                                                     $       19,447    $       18,474    $     380,504     $     181,378     $     561,882     $     527,783
       Accumulated Remeasurement Gains                                                  1,555             1,004           18,778            15,150            33,928            33,588
                                                                               $       21,002    $       19,478    $     399,282     $     196,528     $     595,810     $     561,371


1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.








84                                                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 87---
                                                                                                                                                           Financial Information

Undergraduate Universities (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                                                                                    Alberta           Alberta
                                                                                 University of     University of      MacEwan          Mount Royal
                                                                                   the Arts          the Arts         University        University        March 31,         March 31,
                                                                                   June 30,          June 30,         March 31,         March 31,            2025              2024
                                                                                     2024              2023              2025              2025             Totals            Totals
Statement of Operations
   Revenue                                                                      $      27,222     $      25,808     $     299,005     $     281,355     $     580,360     $     556,361
   Expenses                                                                            26,407            24,295           282,544           270,906           553,450           511,713
   Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                               158               242               975             6,214             7,189             3,680

   Annual Surplus                                                               $          973    $        1,755    $      17,436     $      16,663     $      34,099     $      48,328

Statement of Cash Flows
   Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                 $      14,965     $      16,613     $      87,033     $      62,228     $     149,261     $     108,917
   Cash Provided by (Applied to) Operating Transactions                                    779               577          (10,608)           36,792            26,184            73,790
   Cash Applied to Organizational Activities                                            (3,272)           (2,225)         (17,545)          (32,995)          (50,540)          (33,446)

   Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                       $      12,472     $      14,965     $      58,880     $      66,025     $     124,905     $     149,261

Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets (Net Debt)
   Annual Surplus                                                               $          973    $        1,755    $      17,436     $      16,663     $      34,099     $      48,328
   Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                   (973)               60          (40,820)            (1,088)         (41,908)          (10,677)

   Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets in the Year                                   —             1,815          (23,384)           15,575             (7,809)          37,651

   Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                             17,501            15,686            96,975            82,479           179,454           141,803

   Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                            $      17,501     $      17,501     $      73,591     $      98,054     $     171,645     $     179,454

Salary and Benefits of President Positions
   Base Salary                                                                  $          241    $          237    $          324    $          356
   Other Cash Benefits2                                                                       6                 6                 6               14
   Non-Cash Benefits3                                                                       37                35               147               158

                                                                                $          284    $          278    $          477    $          528

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.
2  Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).

3  Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance, etc.






















Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                              85

---PDF PAGE 88---
Financial Information

Polytechnic Institutions
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                (in thousands)


                                                                                 Lethbridge         Red Deer
                                                                                 Polytechnic       Polytechnic        June 30,          June 30,
                                                                                  June 30,          June 30,            2024              2023
                                                                                    20242             2024              Totals            Totals

Statement of Financial Position

   Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments Restricted
   for Endowments
       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                               $       19,913    $        8,869    $       28,782    $       21,741
       Portfolio Investments – Non-Endowments                                          51,988            61,617          113,605           102,538
       Accounts Receivable                                                              1,298             4,954             6,252             5,656
       Inventories for Resale                                                             576                 —               576               523
                                                                                       73,775            75,440          149,215           130,458

   Liabilities
       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                         9,721            16,851            26,572            24,816
       Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                                  —             2,076             2,076             2,233
       Debt                                                                             4,231            50,273            54,504            59,339
       Deferred Operating Contributions                                                31,185            36,377            67,562            57,758
       Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                                           2,844             4,348             7,192             6,965
       Asset Retirement Obligations                                                     6,435             1,741             8,176             7,894
                                                                                       54,416          111,666           166,082           159,005

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) excluding Portfolio                                 19,359           (36,226)          (16,867)          (28,547)
   Investments Restricted for Endowments
       Portfolio Investments – Restricted for Endowments                               16,530            30,358            46,888            42,971

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt)                                             $       35,889    $       (5,868)   $       30,021    $       14,424

   Non-Financial Assets
       Tangible Capital Assets                                                 $     120,453     $     164,809     $     285,262     $     292,105
       Purchased Intangibles                                                                —                 68                68                —
       Inventories of Supplies                                                               6              115               121                 78
       Prepaid Expenses                                                                 2,293             1,549             3,842             4,271
                                                                                     122,752           166,541           289,293           296,454

   Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                            158,641           160,673           319,314           310,878

   Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                                93,881            93,875          187,756           192,576

   Net Assets                                                                          64,760            66,798          131,558           118,302

   Net Assets is comprised of:
       Accumulated Surplus                                                     $       60,243    $       67,189    $     127,432     $     119,281
       Accumulated Remeasurement Gains and Losses                                       4,517              (391)            4,126              (979)

                                                                               $       64,760    $       66,798    $     131,558     $     118,302

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.
2  Lethbridge College changed name to Lethbridge Polytechnic.






86                                                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 89---
                                                                                                                                                          Financial Information

Polytechnic Institutions (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                                                                                                     Northern         Southern
                                                                                                     Alberta           Alberta
                                                                                Northwestern        Institute of      Institute of
                                                                                 Polytechnic       Technology        Technology         March 31,         March 31,
                                                                                  March 31,         March 31,         March 31,            2025              2024
                                                                                     2025              2025              2025             Totals            Totals
Statement of Financial Position

   Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments Restricted
   for Endowments
       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                                $       4,774     $      26,974     $    231,619      $    263,367      $    296,648
       Portfolio Investments – Non-Endowments                                          52,944          260,916           146,533           460,393           368,471
       Investment in Government Business Enterprises                                        —                468               147               615               647
       Accounts Receivable                                                              4,279            19,666            20,367            44,312            28,609
       Inventories for Resale                                                              391            2,011                 —             2,402             2,385
                                                                                       62,388          310,035           398,666           771,089           696,760

   Liabilities
       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                        11,362            41,613            78,214          131,189           108,621
       Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                              1,080            21,789             9,440            32,309            31,995
       Debt                                                                             9,733          114,350             90,627          214,710           225,215
       Deferred Operating Contributions                                                17,834            98,669          128,727           245,230           253,357
       Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                                              315            4,458            22,141            26,914            32,907
       Asset Retirement Obligations                                                     4,758             8,311            22,196            35,265            34,671
                                                                                       45,082          289,190           351,345           685,617           686,766

   Net Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments                                17,306            20,845            47,321            85,472             9,994
   Restricted for Endowments
       Portfolio Investments – Restricted for Endowments                                9,031            66,415            69,032          144,478           134,607

   Net Financial Assets                                                         $      26,337     $      87,260     $    116,353      $    229,950      $    144,601

   Non-Financial Assets
       Tangible Capital Assets                                                  $      83,073     $    541,593      $    689,177      $  1,313,843      $  1,227,131
       Inventories of Supplies                                                             110                —                 —                110                83
       Prepaid Expenses                                                                 1,480             5,217             7,947            14,644            12,796
                                                                                       84,663          546,810           697,124         1,328,597         1,240,010

   Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                            111,000           634,070           813,477         1,558,547         1,384,611

   Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                                44,176          278,510           399,869           722,555           674,164

   Net Assets                                                                          66,824          355,560           413,608           835,992           710,447

   Net Assets is comprised of:
       Accumulated Surplus                                                      $      67,088     $    355,371      $    408,085      $    830,544      $    706,858
       Accumulated Remeasurement Gains and Losses                                         (264)              189            5,523             5,448             3,589

                                                                                $      66,824     $    355,560      $    413,608      $    835,992      $    710,447
       1      Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial
              statements for these entities are available on their websites.





Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                             87

---PDF PAGE 90---
Financial Information

Polytechnic Institutions (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                (in thousands)


                                                                                 Lethbridge         Red Deer
                                                                                 Polytechnic       Polytechnic        June 30,          June 30,
                                                                                  June 30,          June 30,             2024              2023
                                                                                     2024              2024             Totals            Totals
Statement of Operations
   Revenue                                                                     $     107,161     $     121,275     $     228,436     $     205,162
   Expenses                                                                          103,237           118,541           221,778           202,513
   Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                              150             1,342             1,492             1,539

   Annual Surplus                                                              $        4,074    $        4,076    $        8,150    $        4,188

Statement of Cash Flows
   Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                $       17,827    $        3,914    $       21,741    $       26,386
   Cash Provided by Operating Transactions                                              7,384            15,545            22,929             7,450
   Cash Applied to Organizational Activities                                           (5,298)          (10,590)          (15,888)          (12,095)

   Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                      $       19,913    $        8,869    $       28,782    $       21,741

Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
   Annual Surplus                                                              $        4,074    $        4,076    $        8,150    $        4,188
   Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                   251             7,196             7,447             7,137

   Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets in the Year                              4,325            11,272            15,597            11,325

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt), Beginning of Year                                  31,564           (17,140)           14,424             3,099

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt), End of Year                                $       35,889    $       (5,868)   $       30,021    $       14,424

Salary and Benefits of President Positions
   Base Salary                                                                 $          264    $          273
   Other Cash Benefits2                                                                     21                34
   Non-Cash Benefits3                                                                       36                47

                                                                               $          321    $          354

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.
2  Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and performance based payments (where applicable).

3  Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance, etc.






















88                                                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 91---
                                                                                                                                                           Financial Information







Polytechnic Institutions (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                 (in thousands)


                                                                                                     Northern          Southern
                                                                                                      Alberta           Alberta
                                                                                Northwestern        Institute of      Institute of
                                                                                 Polytechnic       Technology        Technology         March 31,         March 31,
                                                                                  March 31,         March 31,         March 31,            2025              2024
                                                                                     2025              2025              2025              Totals            Totals
Statement of Operations
   Revenue                                                                      $      87,649     $     449,061     $     513,722     $   1,050,432     $     954,261
   Expenses                                                                            77,253           391,708           465,931           934,892           876,464
   Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                             1,246             2,840             4,060             8,146             4,244

   Annual Surplus                                                               $      11,642     $      60,193     $      51,851     $     123,686     $       82,041

Statement of Cash Flows
   Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                 $        8,520    $      48,233     $     239,895     $     296,648     $     186,080
   Cash Provided by Operating Transactions                                               9,028           77,731            50,868           137,627           183,945
   Cash Applied to Organizational Activities                                          (12,774)          (98,990)          (59,144)         (170,908)           (73,378)

   Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                       $        4,774    $      26,974     $     231,619     $     263,367     $     296,647

Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
   Annual Surplus                                                               $      11,642     $      60,193     $      51,851     $     123,686     $       82,041
   Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                               (11,927)            (5,049)         (21,361)           (38,337)          (44,181)

   Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets in the Year                                (285)          55,144            30,490            85,349             37,860

   Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                             26,622            32,116            85,863           144,601           106,741

   Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                            $      26,337     $      87,260     $     116,353     $     229,950     $     144,601

Salary and Benefits of President Positions
   Base Salary                                                                  $          245    $          379    $          378
   Other Cash Benefits2                                                                     21                  6                —
   Non-Cash Benefits3                                                                       39               117               179

                                                                                $          305    $          502    $          557

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.
2  Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and performance based payments (where applicable).

3  Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance, etc.



















Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                              89

---PDF PAGE 92---
Financial Information

Comprehensive Community Colleges
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 20252                                                                                                                              (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                                         Northern
                                                                                Bow Valley          Keyano         Medicine Hat        NorQuest            Lakes
                                                                                  College           College           College           College           College        Olds College
                                                                                  June 30,          June 30,          June 30,         June 30,          June 30,          June 30,
                                                                                    2024              2024              2024             2024              2024              2024

Statement of Financial Position

   Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments Restricted
   for Endowments
       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                               $      11,614     $      45,670     $      16,254    $       48,984    $       11,116    $        8,559
       Portfolio Investments – Non-Endowments                                        156,279             6,134            23,165            64,905            32,944           12,802
       Accounts Receivable                                                              4,977            3,360             1,370             9,163             2,105             4,470
       Inventories for Resale                                                              —                273              315               454                 —             1,925
                                                                                     172,870            55,437            41,104          123,506             46,165           27,756

   Liabilities
       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                       13,204            12,124             3,996            20,815             4,094             7,337
       Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                                187                —                 27            1,415               316                 —
       Debt                                                                                22           10,251               853             8,278                 —           30,053
       Deferred Operating Contributions                                               41,456            22,151             8,950            53,730             7,502           18,155
       Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                                           1,800           17,404             9,644             2,363             2,265                35
       Environmental Liability                                                             —             1,174                 —                 —               167                 —
       Asset Retirement Obligations                                                        92            5,014               490               288             1,396             7,206
                                                                                      56,761            68,118            23,960            86,889            15,740           62,786

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) excluding Portfolio                               116,109           (12,681)           17,144            36,617            30,425          (35,030)
   Investments Restricted for Endowments
       Portfolio Investments – Restricted for Endowments                              22,924             9,267            11,505             7,093             3,349           20,802

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt)                                             $     139,033     $       (3,414)   $      28,649    $       43,710    $       33,774    $     (14,228)

   Non-Financial Assets
       Tangible Capital Assets                                                 $     245,327     $     107,346     $      63,464    $     170,824     $       61,552    $     148,715
       Inventories of Supplies                                                             —                 —                 —                 —               189                 —
       Prepaid Expenses                                                                 4,784               932            1,182             3,961               848               561
                                                                                     250,111           108,278            64,646          174,785             62,589          149,276

   Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                            389,144           104,864            93,295          218,495             96,363          135,048

   Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                              183,578            44,866            39,908          143,190             47,374           94,946

   Net Assets                                                                  $     205,566     $      59,998     $      53,387    $       75,305    $       48,989    $      40,102

   Net Assets is comprised of:
       Accumulated Surplus                                                     $     201,474     $      59,373     $      52,011    $       75,098    $       48,557    $      40,094
       Accumulated Remeasurement Gains                                                  4,092               625            1,376               207               432                  8
                                                                               $     205,566     $      59,998     $      53,387    $       75,305    $       48,989    $      40,102


1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.
2  NorQuest College changed their fiscal year end to March 31, 2025 to coincide with that of the Government of Alberta.





90                                                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 93---
                                                                                                                                                          Financial Information

Comprehensive Community Colleges (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 20252                                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                                                            NorQuest
                                                                                   Portage                                              Lakeland          Lakeland           College
                                                                                   College           June 30,          June 30,          College           College          March 31,
                                                                                   June 30,            2024              2023           March 31,         March 31,            2025
                                                                                     2024             Totals            Totals             2025              2024          (9 Months)
                                                                                                                     (Restated)

Statement of Financial Position
   Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments Restricted
   for Endowments
       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                               $       19,609    $     161,806     $     116,732     $       20,022    $       28,678    $       32,325
       Portfolio Investments – Non-Endowments                                          11,833          308,062           276,899             55,773            46,705            69,349
       Investment in Government Business Enterprises                                        —                 —            22,928                 —                 —                 —
       Accounts Receivable                                                             14,903            40,348            28,359             2,187             2,114            11,482
       Inventories for Resale                                                              208            3,175             4,391               272               272               305
                                                                                       46,553          513,391           449,309             78,254            77,769          113,461
   Liabilities
       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                         5,287            66,857            51,560             9,528             7,710            21,477
       Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                                 107            2,052             1,926                 —                 —             1,472
       Debt                                                                                 —            49,457            47,774            12,365            13,407             8,050
       Deferred Operating Contributions                                                15,319          167,263           148,521             17,963            15,424            46,617
       Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                                           1,315            34,826            33,515             9,577            15,746             1,856
       Environmental Liability                                                              —             1,341             1,091               189               189                 —
       Asset Retirement Obligations                                                        557           15,043            15,731             6,776             6,679               291
                                                                                       22,585          336,839           300,118             56,398            59,155            79,763
   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) excluding Portfolio                                 23,968          176,552           149,191             21,856            18,614            33,698
   Investments Restricted for Endowments
       Portfolio Investments – Restricted for Endowments                                5,854            80,794            72,210            16,601            14,760             8,875
   Net Financial Assets                                                        $       29,822    $     257,346     $     221,401     $       38,457    $       33,374    $       42,573
   Non-Financial Assets
       Tangible Capital Assets                                                 $       43,146    $     840,374     $     823,986     $     152,704     $     144,099     $     179,911
       Inventories of Supplies                                                              33               222               227            3,594             2,736                 —
       Prepaid Expenses                                                                 1,140            13,408            11,266             1,889             1,776             4,769
                                                                                       44,319          854,004           835,479           158,187           148,611           184,680
   Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                              74,141        1,111,350         1,056,880           196,644           181,985           227,253
   Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                                34,366          588,228           600,458             84,189            78,438          140,723
   Net Assets                                                                  $       39,775    $     523,122     $     456,422     $     112,455     $     103,547     $       86,530
   Net Assets is comprised of:
       Accumulated Surplus                                                     $       39,677    $     516,284     $     457,627     $     107,777     $     101,009     $       84,556
       Accumulated Remeasurement Gains and Losses                                           98            6,838            (1,205)            4,678             2,538             1,974
                                                                               $       39,775    $     523,122     $     456,422     $     112,455     $     103,547     $       86,530

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.
2  NorQuest College changed their fiscal year end to March 31, 2025 to coincide with that of the Government of Alberta.





Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                             91

---PDF PAGE 94---
Financial Information

Comprehensive Community Colleges (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 20252                                                                                                                              (in thousands)


                                                                                                                                                         Northern
                                                                                Bow Valley          Keyano         Medicine Hat        NorQuest           Lakes
                                                                                  College           College           College           College          College        Olds College
                                                                                  June 30,         June 30,          June 30,          June 30,          June 30,          June 30,
                                                                                    2024              2024             2024              2024              2024              2024

Statement of Operations
   Revenue                                                                     $    149,020     $       79,735    $       61,763    $     183,790     $      44,042     $      85,202
   Expenses                                                                         144,738             71,618            58,284          170,825            40,529            77,077
   Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                           1,236                 43              641             1,323                55            1,212

   Annual Surplus                                                              $       5,518    $        8,160    $        4,120    $      14,288     $        3,568    $       9,337

Statement of Cash Flows
   Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                $       6,948    $       14,480    $       11,018    $      62,231     $      10,873     $         (362)
   Cash Provided by Operating Transactions                                            18,655            29,590             8,776             7,429             4,655            6,774
   Cash Provided by (Applied to) Organizational Activities                           (13,989)            1,600            (3,540)         (20,676)            (4,412)           2,147

   Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                      $      11,614    $       45,670    $       16,254    $      48,984     $      11,116     $       8,559

Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
   Annual Surplus                                                              $       5,518    $        8,160    $        4,120    $      14,288     $        3,568    $       9,337
   Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                3,378           (15,824)              904            (8,140)             (518)             (394)

   Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets in the Year                             8,896            (7,664)            5,024             6,148             3,050            8,943

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt), Beginning of Year                               130,137              4,250            23,625           37,562            30,724           (23,171)

   Net Financial Assets (Net Debt), End of Year                                $    139,033     $       (3,414)   $       28,649    $      43,710     $      33,774     $     (14,228)

Salary and Benefits of President Positions
   Base Salary                                                                 $          274   $          268    $          234    $          280    $          229    $          249
   Other Cash Benefits3                                                                    18                39                 6                 9               19                14
   Non-Cash Benefits4                                                                      73                21                42               55                31                34

                                                                               $          365   $          328    $          282    $          344    $          279    $          297

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.
2  NorQuest College changed their fiscal year end to March 31, 2025 to coincide with that of the Government of Alberta.

3  Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).

4  Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance, etc.



















92                                                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 95---
                                                                                                                                                           Financial Information







Comprehensive Community Colleges (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for June 30, 2024 and March 31, 20252                                                                                                                                (in thousands)


                                                                                                                                                                             NorQuest
                                                                                   Portage                                               Lakeland          Lakeland           College
                                                                                    College          June 30,          June 30,           College           College         March 31,
                                                                                   June 30,            2024              2023           March 31,         March 31,            2025
                                                                                     2024             Totals            Totals             2025              2024           (9 Months)
                                                                                                                      (Restated)

Statement of Operations
   Revenue                                                                      $      53,779     $     657,331     $     559,716     $      82,144     $      76,918     $     144,835
   Expenses                                                                            40,279           603,350           535,876            76,321            69,640           135,767
   Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                               168             4,678             4,567               945               662               390

   Annual Surplus                                                               $      13,668     $      58,659     $      28,407     $        6,768    $        7,940    $        9,458

Statement of Cash Flows
   Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                 $      11,544     $     116,732     $      99,123     $      28,678     $      24,090     $      48,984
   Cash Provided by (Applied to) Operating Transactions                                11,652            87,531            62,255              6,572           25,684             (1,910)
   Cash Applied to Organizational Activities                                            (3,587)         (42,457)          (44,646)          (15,228)           (21,096)          (14,749)

   Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                       $      19,609     $     161,806     $     116,732     $      20,022     $      28,678     $      32,325

Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
   Annual Surplus                                                               $      13,668     $      58,659     $      28,407     $        6,768    $        7,940    $        9,458
   Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                 (2,119)         (22,713)             6,168            (1,685)           (9,588)          (10,595)

   Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets in the Year                             11,549            35,946            34,575              5,083            (1,648)           (1,137)

   Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                             18,273           221,400           186,826            33,374            35,022            43,710

   Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                            $      29,822     $     257,346     $     221,401     $      38,457     $      33,374     $      42,573

Salary and Benefits of President Positions
   Base Salary                                                                  $          228                                                   249    $          239    $          207
   Other Cash Benefits3                                                                      —                                                     —                 —                  7
   Non-Cash Benefits4                                                                       31                                                    13                 11                69

                                                                                $          259                                                   262    $          250    $          283

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statements for
   these entities are available on their websites.
2  NorQuest College changed their fiscal year end to March 31, 2025 to coincide with that of the Government of Alberta.

3  Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).

4  Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance, etc.

















Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                              93

---PDF PAGE 96---
Financial Information

Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                                                                                      Banff Centre for
                                                                                     Arts and Creativity
                                                                                    2025             2024

Statement of Financial Position

   Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments Restricted
   for Endowments
       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                              $       18,489    $       20,633
       Portfolio Investments – Non-Endowments                                         12,756            15,294
       Accounts Receivable                                                             4,062             3,409
       Inventories for Resale                                                            270               179
                                                                                      35,577            39,515

   Liabilities
       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                        5,563             5,020
       Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                             1,645             1,804
       Debt                                                                           11,240            11,769
       Deferred Operating Contributions                                               27,939            28,305
       Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                                          5,268             9,232
       Asset Retirement Obligations                                                    4,323             4,323
                                                                                      55,978            60,453

   Net Debt excluding Portfolio Investments Restricted for                           (20,401)          (20,938)
   Endowments
       Portfolio Investments – Restricted for Endowments                              47,979            47,280

   Net Financial Assets                                                       $       27,578    $       26,342

   Non-Financial Assets
       Tangible Capital Assets                                                $     142,296     $     136,696
       Inventories of Supplies                                                           210               179
       Prepaid Expenses                                                                1,231               859
                                                                                    143,737           137,734

   Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                           171,315           164,076

   Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                             109,018           103,374

   Net Assets                                                                 $       62,297    $       60,702

   Net Assets is comprised of:
       Accumulated Surplus                                                    $       62,297    $       60,702
                                                                              $       62,297    $       60,702


1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statem                       ents for
   these entities are available on their websites.









94                                                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 97---
                                                                                                                                                      Financial Information







Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (Unaudited)1

for March 31, 2025                                                                                                                                              (in thousands)


                                                                                                                 Banff Centre for
                                                                                                                Arts and Creativity
                                                                                                               2025             2024

Statement of Operations
   Revenue                                                                                               $       61,700    $      54,849
   Expenses                                                                                                      60,802           53,304
   Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment income                                                        697               739

   Annual Surplus                                                                                        $        1,595    $        2,284

Statement of Cash Flows
   Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                                          $       20,633    $      11,977
   Cash Provided by Operating Transactions                                                                        1,851             3,488
   Cash Provided by (Applied to) Organizational Activities                                                       (3,995)            4,468

   Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                                                $       18,489    $      20,633

Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
   Annual Surplus                                                                                        $        1,595    $        2,284
   Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                                            (359)              783

   Increase in Net Financial Assets in the Year                                                                   1,236             3,067

   Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                                                       26,342           23,275

   Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                                                     $       27,578    $      26,342

Salary and Benefits Expenses of Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity
   Salaries, Wages and Non-Pension Benefits                                                              $       31,365    $      28,099
   Pension Benefits                                                                                               2,226             1,290

                                                                                                         $       33,591    $      29,389

1  Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards. Full audited financial statem                    ents for
   these entities are available on their websites.

























Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                        95

---PDF PAGE 98---
Financial Information

Other Financial Information

          Statement of Credit or Recovery (unaudited) ................................                   .................................97

          Statement of Remissions, Compromises and Write-offs (unaudited) .............................                                 98

          Statement of Guarantees and Indemnities given by the Crown and Provincial
          Corporations (unaudited) ...............................................................................................      99

          Lapse / Encumbrance (unaudited) ................................                ............................................... 100

          Funding to Post-Secondary Institutions (unaudited) .................................................... 102































































96                                                                                      Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 99---
                                                                                                                                                 Financial Information

Statement of Credit or Recovery (unaudited)
Department of Advanced Education
Year Ended March 31, 2025

(in thousands)
                                                                                    Unearned
                                                                     Actual         Revenue/       Total Amount
                                                  Authorized       Revenue           Deferred        Received/        (Shortfall)/
                                                  Spending        Recognized      Contributions     Receivable         Excess
Expense Amounts
   French Language Program (1)                  $       5,911    $       7,570    $           —    $       7,570    $       1,659
   Canada Student Loan Administration(2)                9,013            9,020                —            9,020                 7
   Red Seal Secretariat(3)                                454              436                —              436               (18)
   NAP Gender-Based Violence                                —            1,050                —            1,050            1,050

                                                $      15,378    $      18,076    $           —    $      18,076    $       2,698

Capital Investments Amounts
   French Language Program                      $         775    $       1,075    $           —    $       1,075    $         300

                                                $         775    $       1,075    $           —    $       1,075    $         300
(1)  Funding is received from the federal government to support French minority language and second language education programs. P                  rogram 2.2
(2)  Funding is received from the federal government to administer Canada student loans and grants to            Alberta students on a cost-recovery basis. Program 3.1
(3)  Funding from the federal government for the Red Seal Secretariat functions. The Red Seal Program helps to develop a highly qu               alified, productive, and
     mobile skilled trades workforce by developing high     -quality Red Seal products, including Red Seal occupational standards and interprovincial examinations
     for Red Seal trades in collaboration with industry. Program 5.1











































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                   97

---PDF PAGE 100---
Financial Information

Statement of Remissions, Compromises and Write-offs
(unaudited)
Department of Advanced Education
Year Ended March 31, 2025

(in thousands)
The following statement has been prepared pursuant to Section 23 of the Financial
Administration Act. This statement includes all remissions, compromises and write-offs made or
approved during the fiscal period.

Compromises under Section 22 of the Financial Administration Act $      76
Write-offs:
  Implemented Guarantees, Indemnities, Loans and Advances –         38,946
  Section 20 of the Student Financial Assistance Act
  Income Support                                                       864
                                                                    39,810

Total remissions, compromises and write-offs                   $    39,887
Write-offs consists of all debts such as Statute Barred, Bankruptcies, Deceased and Severely
Handicapped.
















































98                                                                                Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 101---
                                                                                              Financial Information

Statement of Guarantees and Indemnities given by the Crown
and Provincial Corporations (unaudited)
Department of Advanced Education
Year Ended March 31, 2025

(in thousands)
The following has been prepared pursuant to Section 75 of the              Financial Administration Act. The
statement summarizes the amounts of all guarantees given by the Crown through the Ministry of
Advanced Education under the Student Loan Act for the year ended March 31, 2025, the
amounts paid to financial institutions as a result of the guaranteed loan program, and the
amounts recovered on debts owing as a result of payments under guarantees.

                       Amount of
                       Guarantee  Payments   Recoveries

Crown Guarantees      $       —  $       —  $        5






















































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                      99

---PDF PAGE 102---
Financial Information

Lapse / Encumbrance (unaudited)
Department of Advanced Education
Year Ended March 31, 2025
(in thousands)
                                                                                  Restated                                              Adjusted
                                                                                    Voted       Supplementary       Adjustments          Voted             Voted         Over Expended
                                                                                 Estimate(1)       Estimate(2)            (3)           Estimate         Actuals(4)       (Unexpended)
Operating Expense Vote by Program
   Ministry Support Services
       1.1    Minister’s Office                                                $          845    $            —    $           —     $          845   $          852    $             7
       1.2    Deputy Minister’s Office                                                    654                 —                —                654              486              (168)
       1.3    Strategic and Corporate Services                                        12,832                  —                —            12,832            13,229               397
                                                                                      14,331                  —                —            14,331            14,567               236
   Support for Adult Learning
       2.1    Adult Learning Program Delivery Support                                 10,074                  —                —            10,074            10,196               122
       2.2    Operating Support for Post-Secondary Institutions                    2,010,152                  —             1,209       2,011,361         2,012,110                749
       2.3    Indigenous Education                                                      6,640                 —                —             6,640             6,559                (81)
       2.4    Adult Learning System Initiatives                                       16,613                  —              (200)          16,413            12,866            (3,547)
                                                                                   2,043,479                  —             1,009       2,044,488         2,041,731             (2,757)
   Private Career Colleges and Student Aid
       3.1    Private Career Colleges and Student Aid Program                         40,674                  —                —            40,674            49,969             9,295
              Delivery Services
       3.2    Student Aid Grants                                                      68,954                  —                 —           68,954            63,086            (5,868)
       3.3    Scholarships and Awards                                                 53,754                  —                —            53,754            47,058            (6,696)
                                                                                     163,382                  —                —          163,382           160,113             (3,269)
   Regulated Professions
       4.1    Professional Governance                                                   1,041                 —                 —             1,041            1,710               669
       4.2    Labour Mobility                                                             127                 —                 —               127              134                  7
       4.3    Fairness for Newcomers Office                                               490                 —                 —               490              468                (22)
                                                                                        1,658                 —                 —             1,658            2,312               654
   Apprenticeship
       5.1    Apprenticeship Program Delivery Support                                 31,980                  —                 —           31,980            24,297            (7,683)
       5.2    Apprenticeship Grants                                                   85,393                  —                 —           85,393            93,304             7,911
       5.3    Adult Learning Initiatives                                              17,884                  —                 —           17,884            32,853            14,969
                                                                                     135,257                  —                 —          135,257          150,454             15,197
   Foundational Learning Support
       6.1    Foundational Learning Delivery Support                                    3,487                 —                —             3,487             3,979               492
       6.2    Foundational Learning Assistance Grants                                116,920                  —                 —          116,920            75,602           (41,318)
       6.3    Community Adult Learning Programs                                       21,114                  —                —            21,114            21,114                 —
                                                                                     141,521                  —                —          141,521           100,695            (40,826)
   Capital Payments to Related Parties
   Post-secondary Infrastructure
       7.1    Capital Expansion and Upgrading                                        116,718                  —               600          117,318          111,510             (5,808)
       7.2    Capital Maintenance and Renewal                                        133,129                  —                 —          133,129          133,129                  —
                                                                                     249,847                  —               600          250,447          244,639             (5,808)
Total                                                                              2,749,475                  —             1,609       2,751,084         2,714,511            (36,573)
Credit or Recovery Shortfall                                                                —                 —                —                 —                 —                 —
                                                                               $   2,749,475     $            —    $        1,609    $  2,751,084     $   2,714,511     $      (36,573)
Lapse                                                                                                                                                                   $      (36,573)




100                                                                                                                  Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 103---
                                                                                                                                                        Financial Information

Lapse / Encumbrance (unaudited) (continued)
Department of Advanced Education
Year Ended March 31, 2025

(in thousands)
                                                                                 Restated                                             Adjusted
                                                                                   Voted       Supplementary       Adjustments          Voted             Voted         Over Expended
                                                                                Estimate(1)       Estimate (2)           (3)          Estimate          Actuals(4)      (Unexpended)
Capital Investment Vote by Program
   Department Capital Acquisitions
       1.3    Strategic and Corporate Services                                $            25   $            —    $           —     $           25   $             9   $          (16)
       2.1    Adult Learning Program Delivery Support                                      —                 —               200              200               199                 (1)
       5.1    Apprenticeship Delivery Support                                              25                —                —                 25                 5              (20)
       Total                                                                               50                —               200              250               213               (37)

Credit or Recovery Shortfall                                                               —                 —                —                 —                 —                 —

                                                                              $            50   $            —    $          200    $         250    $          213    $          (37)

Lapse                                                                                                                                                                  $          (37)

Financial Transactions Vote by Program
       3.4    Student Loan Disbursements                                      $   1,240,200     $            —    $           —     $  1,240,200     $     905,328     $    (334,872)

   Total                                                                          1,240,200                  —                —        1,240,200           905,328          (334,872)

Credit or Recovery Shortfall                                                               —                 —                —                 —                 —                 —

                                                                              $   1,240,200     $            —    $           —     $  1,240,200     $     905,328     $    (334,872)

Lapse                                                                                                                                                                  $    (334,872)
(1)  As per "Expense Vote by Program", "Capital Investment Vote by Program" and "Financial Transaction Vote by Program".
(2)  Per the Supplementary Supply Estimates approved on date of Royal               Assent of the Appropriations Acts.
(3)  Adjustments include encumbrances, capital carry over amounts, transfers between votes and credit or recovery increases approv                      ed by Treasury Board and
     credit or recovery shortfalls. An encumbrance is incurred when, on a vote           -by-vote basis, the total of actual disbursements in the prior year exceed the total
     adjusted estimate. All calculated encumbrances from the prior year are reflected as an adjustment to reduce the corresponding voted estimate in the current
     year.
(4)  Actuals exclude non-voted amounts as no cash disbursement is required (non-cash amounts), or because the Legislative Assembly has already provided
     the funding authority pursuant to a statute other than an appropriation act. Non-cash amounts (such as amortization, accretion, valuation adjustments, and
     other provisions) are excluded as these amounts do not require any expenditure or payment of public money. Year-end expense accruals and payables
     which will immediately require a cash outlay (payment of public money) to settle or otherwise extinguish the liabilities are included in Actuals.


























Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                                                                         101

---PDF PAGE 104---
Financial Information

Funding to Post-Secondary Institutions (unaudited)

(in thousands)
                                                                                                    Operating Grants(1)              Grants for Infrastructure

Post-Secondary Institutions                                                                        2025              2024              2025              2024
Comprehensive Academic and                 Athabasca University                               $      42,491     $       42,529    $        1,793    $        1,793
Research Universities                      University of Alberta                                    513,060           494,198             42,989            43,161

                                           University of Calgary                                    451,228           428,673             60,466            55,747
                                           University of Lethbridge                                  93,357             93,701             8,240             8,540
Undergraduate Universities                 Alberta University of the Arts                            14,570             14,793               658             3,586
                                           MacEwan University                                       110,587           109,897             14,297             9,523
                                           Mount Royal University                                    99,503             98,086            16,026            21,626
Polytechnical Institutions                 Lethbridge Polytechnic                                    45,631             44,989             3,187             2,029
                                           Northern Alberta Institute of Technology                 176,271           164,326             12,163             7,440
                                           Northwestern Polytechnic                                  44,236             41,878            14,541             5,435
                                           Red Deer Polytechnic                                      51,864             48,568             4,668             2,805
                                           Southern Alberta Institute of Technology                 164,847           156,654             27,404            25,365
Comprehensive Community                    Bow Valley College                                        45,757             44,777               987                 —
Colleges                                   Keyano College                                            34,811             33,617             5,193             9,784

                                           Lakeland College                                          34,935             33,552             2,456            15,957
                                           Medicine Hat College                                      34,566             34,148             4,498             3,580
                                           NorQuest College                                          46,722             47,670             1,142             1,142
                                           Northern Lakes College                                    28,581             28,394             1,450             3,567
                                           Olds College                                              28,689             27,402            15,314             2,456
                                           Portage College                                           23,520             22,638             2,240             2,270
Banff Centre for Arts and                  Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity                      16,161             17,040             4,927             2,537
Creativity
Total Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                          2,101,387         2,027,530           244,640           228,343

Independent Academic                       Ambrose University College                                  3,282             3,340                 —                 —
Institutions                               Burman University                                           3,808             3,578                 —                 —

                                           Concordia University of Edmonton                          15,088             14,975                 —                 —
                                           St. Mary’s University College                               4,554             4,026                 —                 —
                                           The King’s University College                               5,208             5,215                 —                 —
Other Colleges                                                                                         5,840             5,750                 —                 —

Total Funding Provided to Post-Secondary Institutions                                         $   2,139,168     $   2,064,414     $     244,640     $     228,343
(1)  Include funding to these entities from all department programs.




















102                                                                                                                   Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 105---
                                                                                                           Financial Information

Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports
Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act
Chief officer’s annual report
 32 (1)  Every chief officer must prepare a report annually on all disclosures that have been made to the
         designated officer of the department, public entity or office of the Legislature for which the chief
         officer is responsible.
    (2)  The report under subsection (1) must include the following information:
         (a)  the number of disclosures received by the designated officer, the number of disclosures acted on
              and the number of disclosures not acted on by the designated officer;
         (b)  the number of investigations commenced by the designated officer as a result of disclosures;
         (c)  in the case of an investigation that results in a finding of wrongdoing, a description of the
              wrongdoing and
               (i) any recommendations made or corrective measures taken in relation to the wrongdoing, and
              (ii) if the department, public entity or office to which the recommendations relate has not taken
                   corrective measures in relation to the wrongdoing, the reasons provided.
    (3)  The report under subsection (1) must be included in the annual report of the department, public
         entity or office of the Legislature if the annual report is made publicly available, and if the annual
         report is not made publicly available, the chief officer must make the report under subsection (1)
         available to the public on request.

Summary of inquiries, disclosures, investigations, and reports made under the Public Interest
Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act for the Department of Advanced Education during
2024-25.
         There were no disclosures of wrongdoing for the Department of Advanced Education between
         April 1, 2024 and March 31, 2025.

The department’s agencies make whistleblower disclosures in their own annual reports. Full information for
these agencies are available on their websites.






















Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                    103

---PDF PAGE 106---
Appendix

Appendix
Post-Secondary Institutions by Institution Type
Institution Type                                                                                    Post-secondary Institutions
Comprehensive Academic and Research Universities                                                    Athabasca University
These universities provide undergraduate and graduate degrees and undertake                         University of Alberta
comprehensive research activities. While instruction remains the core business,                     University of Calgary
research activity is primarily conducted in this sector.                                            University of Lethbridge

Undergraduate Universities                                                                          Alberta University of the Arts
These universities provide undergraduate programming and offer certificate,                         MacEwan University
diploma, applied degree, and baccalaureate degree programs in specified areas.                      Mount Royal University
Polytechnic Institutions                                                                            Lethbridge Polytechnic
These institutes provide apprenticeship, certificate, and diploma programs geared                   Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
predominantly to technical careers, and some applied and baccalaureate degrees                      Northwestern Polytechnic
in specified areas (limited to undergraduate programs).                                             Red Deer Polytechnic
                                                                                                    Southern Alberta Institute of Technology
Comprehensive Community Colleges                                                                    Bow Valley College
These colleges provide a broad range of programming including apprenticeship,                       Keyano College
certificate, diploma, foundational learning, and upgrading. They also provide                       Lakeland College
university transfer (years one and two) and applied degrees. Baccalaureate                          Medicine Hat College
degrees are provided, when feasible, primarily in collaboration with a degree-                      NorQuest College
granting institution.
                                                                                                    Northern Lakes College
                                                                                                    Olds College
                                                                                                    Portage College
Independent Academic Institutions                                                                   Ambrose University
These universities primarily provide liberal arts, science, and education                           Burman University
baccalaureate programs.                                                                             Concordia University of Edmonton
                                                                                                    MaKami College
                                                                                                    St. Mary’s University
                                                                                                    The King’s University
Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity                                                                Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity
This institution concentrates on the fine arts, cultural programming, and
professional development.
First Nations Colleges                                                                              Maskwacis Cultural College
First Nations Colleges (FNCs) are institutions that provide programs and courses                    Red Crow Community College
that are characterized by teachings and research grounded in Indigenous                             Old Sun Community College
worldviews. FNCs are mandated, owned, and governed by the First Nations they                        University nuhelot’įne thaiyots’į
serve, and serve as centres of post-secondary education for Indigenous students,                       nistameyimâkanak Blue Quills
communities, and Nations. FNCs provide essential physical access points to                          Yellowhead Tribal College
post-secondary education and training for those in urban centres as well as
Indigenous rural and remote communities. Additionally, FNCs are post-secondary
leaders in providing culturally-responsive post-secondary education programs
and student supports.





104                                                                                              Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 107---
                                                                                                                       Appendix


Map of Public Post-Secondary Institutions































































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                   105

---PDF PAGE 108---
Appendix


Map of Independent Academic Institutions































































106                                                                             Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25

---PDF PAGE 109---
                                                                                                                         Appendix


Map of First Nations Colleges





























































Advanced Education | Annual Report 2024-25                                                                                      107