
---PDF PAGE 1---
Innovation and
Advanced Education









                      Annual Report
                      2013-2014

---PDF PAGE 2---
                                 Innovation and Advanced Education                             IAE Annual Report 2013-2014














For more information, contact:

Alberta Innovation and Advanced Education
Communications
    mail    5   Floor, Phipps-McKinnon Buildingth
            10020 101A Ave
            Edmonton, Alberta  T5J 3G2

Internet    iae.alberta.ca/annualreports

  phone     780-422-5400
            (for toll-free access within Alberta, first dial 310-0000)

            Deaf callers with TTY equipment
              phone     780-427-9999
                        (for toll-free access within Alberta, first dial 310-0000)

Copyright © 2014, the Crown in Right of the Province of Alberta,
as represented by the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education.
Permission is given by the copyright owner for any person to reproduce
this document for educational purposes and on a non-profit basis.

Innovation and Advanced Education Annual Report 2013-2014
ISBN   978-1-4601-1741-5 (Print)
ISBN   978-1-4601-1742-2 (PDF)
ISSN   2367-9654 (Print)
ISSN   2367-9662 (Online)

---PDF PAGE 3---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                       Innovation and Advanced Education                                            i


                     Innovation and Advanced Education
                     Annual Report 2013-2014
                     Preface                                                                                                  1
                     Minister’s Accountability Statement                                                                      1
                     Message from the Minister                                                                                2
                     Management’s Responsibility for Reporting                                                                3
                     Results Analysis                                                                                         5
                     Financial Information
                       Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                         17
                       Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                       43
                       Access to the Future Fund                                                                             65
                       Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                        71
                       Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                               83
                     Other Information                                                                                       91
                     Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports                                                      97
                     Contact Information                                                                                     98

---PDF PAGE 4---
ii                                                        Innovation and Advanced Education                                IAE Annual Report 2013-2014















                                               iae.alberta.ca/annualreports

---PDF PAGE 5---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                         Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                   1

                            Preface

                            The Public Accounts of Alberta are prepared in accordance with the Financial Administration Act and the Fiscal
                            Management Act.  The Public Accounts consist of the annual report of the Government of Alberta and the annual
                            reports of each of the 19 ministries.
                            The annual report of the Government of Alberta contains ministers’ accountability statements, the consolidated
                            financial statements of the province and Measuring Up report, which compares actual performance results to
                            desired results set out in the Government’s strategic plan.
                            On December 6, 2013, the Government announced new ministry structures.  The 2013-14 ministry annual reports
                            and financial statements have been prepared based on the new ministry structure.
                            The Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education was formerly known as the Ministry of Enterprise and
                            Advanced Education.  With the change, programs relating directly to workforce development moved to the Ministry
                            of Jobs, Skills, Training and Labour.
                            This annual report of the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education contains the Minister’s
                            accountability statement, the audited consolidated financial statements of the Ministry and a comparison of
                            actual performance results to desired results set out in the Ministry business plan.  This Ministry annual report
                            also includes:

                            „   the financial statements of entities making up the Ministry including the Department of Innovation and
                                Advanced Education, regulated funds, provincial agencies, and Crown-controlled corporations for which
                                the Minister is responsible; and

                            „   other financial information as required by the Financial Administration Act and Fiscal Management Act,
                                either as separate reports or as a part of the financial statements, to the extent that the Ministry has
                                anything to report.

                            Minister’s Accountability Statement

                            The Ministry’s annual report for the year ended March 31, 2014 was prepared under my direction in accordance
                            with the Fiscal Management Act and the Government’s accounting policies.  All of the Government’s policy decisions
                            as at June 9, 2014 with material economic or fiscal implications of which I am aware have been considered in the
                            preparation of this report.

                            original signed by

                            Dave Hancock, QC
                            Premier of Alberta
                            Minister, Innovation and Advanced Education

---PDF PAGE 6---
2                                                                  Innovation and Advanced Education                                            IAE Annual Report 2013-14

                             Message from the Minister

                             Innovation, education, and enterprise are integral to our province’s future and building an even better and stronger
                             Alberta.  During this past fiscal year, Innovation and Advanced Education played a key role in helping Albertans
                             maximize their potential, in exploring new ways to grow innovation in the province, and in strengthening our
                             province's capacity to compete in the global marketplace.
                             Creating shared outcomes for Alberta’s advanced education system was one of many accomplishments at
                             Innovation and Advanced Education this past fiscal year.  To inspire a shared vision, we engaged post-secondary
                             institutions, student leaders, and faculty associations to create common outcomes for Campus Alberta.  These
                             shared outcomes are helping to create a strong foundation for a more collaborative, sustainable, and efficient
                             advanced education system.
                             We recognize that students need access to modern and quality education environments to make the best use of
                             their time and energy while they are earning their credentials.  With this in mind, we provided $15 million for
                             expansion and upgrading and over $48 million for maintenance and renewal of Campus Alberta institutions to
                             ensure students have improved access to up-to-date and supportive education environments and the services and
                             resources they need to pursue their goals and dreams.
                             The Ministry also played a lead role in ensuring that students have access to flexible education opportunities and
                             affordable advanced education.  We continued to help learners follow their own educational paths by working with
                             Education to support 26 new dual credit opportunities in areas such as computing science, health care aide, and
                             natural resources among others.
                             Many low-income Albertans who want to advance their education are still finding finances to be a significant
                             barrier.  In response to their needs, Student Aid Alberta began offering a new grant to support low-income student
                             loan borrowers in one-year undergraduate certificate programs.  We are also supporting the development of open
                             educational resources, as they present an opportunity to help reduce the costs students face for a post-secondary
                             education.
                             Innovation has great potential to support sustainable prosperity in Alberta’s economy and society, and we need to
                             ensure that Alberta’s innovation system continues to be responsive to the marketplace and Albertans’ priorities.
                             Toward that end, the Ministry is working with the research and innovation community to drive the evolution of
                             Alberta’s innovation ecosystem, create a framework for innovation, and enhance all avenues for technology
                             commercialization.
                             Alberta continues to move forward in reaching its goal of becoming a global leader in innovation.  We continued to
                             form new commercialization and research collaborations with corporations and research organizations from
                             around the world, including Johnson & Johnson and Siemens.  Siemens, a technology giant, will be establishing its
                             Canadian Energy Headquarters in Calgary and matching its research and development capabilities to Alberta’s
                             innovation system.  Strategic collaborations like this will help to pave the way for increased investment in Alberta’s
                             research institutions, improved employment opportunities for Albertans, and increased market access for Alberta’s
                             small and medium-sized enterprises.
                             Our province continues to be the economic engine of Canada and the Ministry is working on initiatives to ensure
                             that Alberta’s economy is diversified, competitive, and supports entrepreneurship. We have consulted with
                             economic development agencies across the province to develop a framework that will enable a more coordinated
                             approach to economic development in Alberta.  We also consulted with small business owners throughout Alberta,
                             and are using feedback from these consultations to shape a small business strategy to support and grow small
                             business.  The Ministry also contributed to the economic recovery of communities and small businesses following
                             the floods in southern Alberta by providing support through the Economic Disaster Recovery Project and the
                             Hand-Up Plan.
                             Innovation and Advanced Education remains committed to helping Alberta realize a future where we are leaders in
                             education, unleashing innovation, and supporting entrepreneurs so that we can compete in the global
                             marketplace and ensure that Alberta is the best place to live, work, and raise a family.
                             I thank all Innovation and Advanced Education staff for your hard work and dedication in helping our Ministry to
                             achieve its goals.  I also want to thank our stakeholders, partners, and agencies for working with us over the past
                             year to serve Albertans and find new ways to build a more prosperous Alberta.

                             original signed by

                             Dave Hancock, QC
                             Premier of Alberta
                             Minister, Innovation and Advanced Education

---PDF PAGE 7---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                          Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                      3

                             Management’s Responsibility for Reporting

                             The Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education includes:
                             „   the Department of Innovation and Advanced Education,
                             „  the Access to the Future Fund,
                             „  the Alberta Enterprise Corporation,
                             „  Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions,
                             „  Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions,
                             „  Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures, and
                             „  Public Post-Secondary Institutions.
                             The executives of the individual entities within the Ministry have the primary responsibility and accountability for
                             the respective entities.  Collectively, the executives ensure the Ministry complies with all relevant legislation,
                             regulations, and policies.
                             Ministry business plans, annual reports, performance results and the supporting management information are
                             integral to the Government’s fiscal and strategic plan, annual report, quarterly reports and other financial and
                             performance reporting.
                             Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the consolidated financial statements and performance results for
                             the Ministry rests with the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education.  Under the direction of the Minister, I
                             oversee the preparation of the Ministry’s annual report, including consolidated financial statements and
                             performance results.  The consolidated financial statements and the performance results, of necessity, include
                             amounts that are based on estimates and judgments.  The consolidated financial statements are prepared in
                             accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.  The performance measures are prepared in
                             accordance with the following criteria:
                             „  Reliability – information agrees with underlying data and the sources used to prepare it.
                             „  Understandability and Comparability – current results are presented clearly in accordance with the stated
                                 methodology and are comparable with previous results.
                             „  Completeness – performance measures and targets match those included in Budget 2013.
                             As Deputy Minister, in addition to program responsibilities, I am responsible for the Ministry’s financial
                             administration and reporting functions.  The Ministry maintains systems of financial management and internal
                             control which give consideration to costs, benefits and risks that are designed to:
                             „  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are properly authorized, executed in accordance with prescribed
                                 legislation and regulations, and properly recorded so as to maintain accountability of public money;
                             „  provide information to manage and report on performance;
                             „  safeguard the assets and properties of the province under Ministry administration;
                             „  provide Executive Council, the President of Treasury Board, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of
                                 Innovation and Advanced Education information needed to fulfill their responsibilities; and
                             „  facilitate preparation of Ministry business plans and annual reports required under the Fiscal Management Act.
                             In fulfilling my responsibilities for the Ministry, I have relied, as necessary, on the executives of the individual
                             entities within the Ministry.

                             original signed by

                             Steve MacDonald
                             Deputy Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education
                             June 9, 2014

---PDF PAGE 8---
4                                                         Innovation and Advanced Education                                IAE Annual Report 2013-14















                                              iae.alberta.ca/annualreports

---PDF PAGE 9---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                     Results Analysis                                                           5


                       Results Analysis
                       Ministry Overview                                                                                                 6
                       Review Engagement Report                                                                                          8
                       Discussion and Analysis of Results                                                                                9
                       Financial Highlights                                                                                            16

---PDF PAGE 10---
6                                                                            Results Analysis                                                  IAE Annual Report 2013-14
                            Ministry Overview

                            Innovation and Advanced Education provides strategic leadership in advancing learning, research, innovation,
                            commercialization, and economic development.  The Ministry aims to broaden Alberta’s economic base and
                            optimize Alberta’s human potential to create an innovative and competitive province.
                            Innovation and Advanced Education leads the development of a resilient economy and a thriving society by:
                            „   Engaging learners in lifelong learning.  Innovation and Advanced Education funds the advanced learning
                                 system and facilitates collaboration across the system, working with public post-secondary institutions, private
                                 providers, community adult learning organizations, Aboriginal Colleges, and industry to meet the needs of
                                 learners, society, and the economy.  The Ministry ensures access to a full range of affordable and quality
                                 advanced learning opportunities for Albertans by supporting flexible learner pathways, providing student
                                 financial aid, rewarding excellence through scholarships, and providing program quality assurance to support
                                 lifelong learning.

                            „   Fostering excellence in research, innovation, and commercialization.  Innovation and Advanced Education
                                 works collaboratively with partners and stakeholders to coordinate, fund, and promote research and innovation.
                                 The Ministry supports investment in emerging-technology companies, corporate partnerships that facilitate
                                 technology commercialization, and international agreements that promote research and development.

                            „   Ensuring that Alberta's economy is competitive and sustainable.  Innovation and Advanced Education
                                 develops provincial and regional economic development policies, initiatives, and tools to make Alberta an
                                 attractive place to invest and do business.  In partnership with key stakeholders, the Ministry ensures economic
                                 stability by facilitating entrepreneurship and productivity growth, and by promoting value-added and supply
                                 chain development.

---PDF PAGE 11---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                                                  Results Analysis                                                                                            7

                                 The Ministry collaborates with learning providers, advisory boards, councils and authorities, and innovation
                                 support agencies to fulfill its mandate.
                                 Entities included in Ministry Financial Statements

                                 Ministry         Department of Innovation and Advanced Education
                                                  Funds and Corporations                                              Access to the Future Fund
                                                                                                                      Alberta Enterprise Corporation
                                                                                                                      Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions
                                                                                                                      Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions
                                                                                                                      Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures
                                                  Public Post-Secondary             Comprehensive Academic            University of Alberta
                                                  Institutions                      and Research Institutions         University of Calgary

                                                                                                                      University of Lethbridge
                                                                                                                      Athabasca University
                                                                                    Baccalaureate and Applied         Grant MacEwan University
                                                                                    Studies Institutions              Mount Royal University

                                                                                    Polytechnical Institutions        Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
                                                                                                                      Southern Alberta Institute of Technology
                                                                                    Comprehensive Community           Bow Valley College
                                                                                    Institutions                      Grande Prairie Regional College

                                                                                                                      Keyano College
                                                                                                                      Lakeland College
                                                                                                                      Lethbridge College
                                                                                                                      Medicine Hat College
                                                                                                                      NorQuest College
                                                                                                                      Northern Lakes College
                                                                                                                      Olds College
                                                                                                                      Portage College
                                                                                                                      Red Deer College
                                                                                    Specialized Arts and Culture      Alberta College of Art + Design
                                                                                    Institutions                      The Banff Centre

                                 For more information on the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education, see iae.alberta.ca.
                                 Websites for these entities are listed on page 98.
                                 Advisory Boards, Councils and Authorities

                                 Access Advisory Council
                                 Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training Board
                                 Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer
                                 Alberta Research and Innovation Authority
                                 Campus Alberta Quality Council
                                 Alberta Economic Development Authority
                                 Websites for these entities are listed on page 98.

---PDF PAGE 12---
8                                                                             Results Analysis                                                   IAE Annual Report 2013-14








                            Review Engagement Report


                           To the Members of the Legislative Assembly


                           I have reviewed the performance measures identified as reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General in the Ministry
                           of Innovation and Advanced Education’s Annual Report 2013–2014.  The reviewed performance measures are the
                           responsibility of the ministry and are prepared based on the following criteria:
                           „  Reliability – The information used in applying performance measure methodologies agrees with underlying
                               source data for the current and prior years’ results.
                           „  Understandability – The performance measure methodologies and results are presented clearly.
                           „  Comparability – The methodologies for performance measure preparation are applied consistently for the current
                               and prior years’ results.
                           „  Completeness – The goals, performance measures and related targets match those included in the ministry’s
                               budget 2013.
                           My review was made in accordance with Canadian generally accepted standards for review engagements and,
                           accordingly, consisted primarily of enquiry, analytical procedures and discussion related to information supplied to
                           me by the ministry.
                           A review does not constitute an audit and, consequently, I do not express an audit opinion on the performance
                           measures.  Further, my review was not designed to assess the relevance and sufficiency of the reviewed performance
                           measures in demonstrating ministry progress towards the related goals.
                           Based on my review, nothing has come to my attention that causes me to believe that the performance measures
                           identified as reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General in the ministry’s annual report 2013-2014 are not, in all
                           material respects, presented in accordance with the criteria of reliability, understandability, comparability and
                           completeness as described above.


                           original signed by

                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           May 24, 2014
                           Edmonton, Alberta


                           Performance measures reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General are noted with an asterisk (*) on the Performance Measures Summary Table
                           for Goals 1, 2 and 3.

---PDF PAGE 13---
    IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                                           Results Analysis                                                                                   9
    Discussion and Analysis of Results

    Innovation and Advanced Education is committed to engaging                                      research and innovation community on the innovation ecosystem’s
    Albertans in learning, innovation, and entrepreneurship to build a                              evolution, recruiting research chairs, and creating partnerships
    resilient economy and a thriving society.                                                       within the research and innovation sector.  The Ministry continues
    In 2013-14, the Ministry worked towards engaging Albertans in                                   to help Campus Alberta institutions become more competitive in
    lifelong learning by supporting an evolving advanced learning                                   attracting sponsored research revenue and collaborating with the
    system focused on creating seamless learner pathways and                                        venture capital industry and entrepreneurs.  Our efforts are
    providing accessible, quality education.  Some examples of                                      working and we achieved increases in both sponsored research
    significant progress include funding capital projects, engaging                                 revenue attracted by Alberta’s comprehensive academic research
    advanced learning partners in creating common outcomes,                                         institutions and venture capital in 2013.
    offering a new grant to low-income student loan borrowers, and                                  In 2013-14, the Ministry worked to ensure that Alberta’s economy
    providing learners with flexible options such as dual credit courses.                           is competitive and sustainable by engaging with the business
    Alberta’s post-secondary participation rate has remained stable                                 community and fostering economic diversification.  Some
    over the past 16 years.  Our province’s post-secondary participation                            examples of significant progress include collaborating with
    rate tends to be slightly lower than the Canadian average due in                                economic development agencies on developing an economic
    large part to our strong labour market which draws people into the                              development framework, engaging the small business community
    workforce.  The Ministry continues to work on initiatives to raise                              to shape a strategy to support and grow small businesses,
    Alberta’s post-secondary participation and we are seeing positive                               launching an online information source with 26 economic
    results, as we exceeded the Ministry’s target in 2013.                                          indicators for the Alberta economy, completing projects that focus
    In 2013-14, the Ministry worked to foster excellence in research,                               on growing the industrial sector, and providing support to
    innovation, and commercialization in the province by attracting                                 businesses and communities.  Alberta continues to work with
    research talent and funding, enabling the evolution of the system,                              industry to attract more value-added investments in the province’s
    creating strategic partnerships, and encouraging new investment.                                manufacturing and business service industries and to ensure that
    Some examples of significant progress include engaging the                                      Alberta’s economy is diversified, competitive, and sustainable.


       Goal 1       Albertans are engaged in lifelong learning

    Performance Measures                                                                                                                                   Current
                                                                                                                      Prior Years’ Results                  Actual      Target     Endnotes

*   Percentage of Albertans aged 18-34 participating in post-secondary education helps                       17%         18%          17%         17%          18%          17%    A
    indicate Alberta’s social and economic well-being since post-secondary participation correlates          2009         2010        2011         2012        2013
    to employment and earning power.
    Satisfaction of recent post-secondary graduates with the overall quality of their                        91%           n/a1        n/a2       92%           n/a          —3    B   C
    educational experience indicates the system’s ability to help students achieve desired                   2010                                  2012
    outcomes.
    Satisfaction of recent apprenticeship graduates with:                      on-the-job training            n/a4       91%           n/a        95%           n/a          —5    C   D
    indicates the quality of the apprenticeship training system and its                                                2010-11                     2013
    ability to meet learner needs in terms of relevant content, excellent
    instruction, cutting-edge equipment, and current trade practices.          technical training             n/a4       93%           n/a        96%           n/a          —5
                                                                                                                       2010-11                     2013

    1  The Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey is conducted every other year.                                                                         Target exceeded
    2  The 2012 Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey was conducted on the usual biennial schedule, but that schedule could not                         Target met
       accommodate the June 2012 publication of the 2011-12 Annual Report.  New results became available in September 2012 for
       publication in the 2012-13 Annual Report.                                                                                                          Target not met
    3  No target was set for this measure when the business plan was created because no new data was expected in the biennial cycle of the                No target set
       Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey.
    4  The Survey of Apprenticeship Graduates is conducted every other year.
    5  No targets were set for this measure when the business plan was created because no new data was expected in the biennial cycle of
       the Survey of Apprenticeship Graduates.

*   Indicates Performance Measures that have been reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General as part of the Ministry’s audit plan.  Measures selected for review were chosen by
    Ministry management based on the following criteria established by Government:
         enduring measures that best represent the goal,
         measures for which new data is available, and
         measures that have well established methodology.

---PDF PAGE 14---
10                                                                            Results Analysis                                                   IAE Annual Report 2013-14

Lifelong learning is what keeps our province vibrant: people with                        These letters, while tailored to each institution, provide a road map
skills and ideas making tangible contributions to society and the                        towards common outcomes, particularly greater collaboration and
economy.  The Ministry supports these contributions through the                          flexible learner pathways.  This shared vision is helping to create a
advanced learning system by funding its operations and                                   strong foundation for a more responsive, sustainable, and efficient
infrastructure, enabling system evolution, and ensuring system                           advanced learning system.
accessibility and quality.                                                               Seamless Learning Transitions
Providing Funding                                                                        Helping learners pursue their own educational paths encourages
To ensure quality advanced learning opportunities are available                          Albertans to discover their talents and aspirations and raises
across Alberta, Innovation and Advanced Education provided                               Alberta’s ability to meet the challenges and opportunities facing us
nearly $2.2 billion in operating funding for post-secondary                              as a province.
institutions in 2013-14.  This funding ensures a solid foundation for                    Dual Credit Strategy
Alberta’s advanced learning providers.  Additionally, the Ministry                       The Ministry understands that transitioning from high school to
provided $15 million to support expansion and upgrading of                               post-secondary education is a partnership between the K-12
post-secondary facilities and over $48 million for capital                               system, Campus Alberta, and business and industry.  Accordingly,
maintenance and renewal.  This funding ensures students have                             in 2013-14, Innovation and Advanced Education worked with
access to modern and high-quality learning environments.                                 Education to implement the Provincial Dual Credit Strategy.  This
Capital Projects                                                                         strategy allows students to earn both high school and
In 2013-14, the Government committed funds over five years to                            post-secondary credits for the same coursework, make progress
support several capital expansion and upgrading projects aimed at                        towards workplace certification, or gain preferred placement
modernizing and expanding capacity of Alberta’s advanced                                 (course exemption) in post-secondary programs.  In 2013-14, 26
learning infrastructure.                                                                 dual credit opportunities were approved for provincial funding,
State-of-the-art classrooms, simulation labs, and a 135-seat lecture                     benefiting students with career interests ranging across such
theatre will be part of the Centre for Applied Technologies, the                         diverse fields as welding, health care, computing science, and
largest capital project ever undertaken by the Northern Alberta                          natural resources.  Some of these programs began in
Institute of Technology.  The Centre will accommodate the                                September 2013, while others will begin in fall 2014 or fall 2015.
equivalent of 5,000 full-time students, including 1,700 new seats.                       Understanding Learner Mobility
The Ministry is providing $200 million over the next five years                          The Ministry is enhancing learner pathways through funding and a
toward this project to train students in high-demand areas that are                      Secretariat that supports the work of the Alberta Council on
essential to growing and diversifying Alberta’s economy.                                 Admissions and Transfer (ACAT), an independent advisory council
Renovations to the Schulich School of Engineering at the                                 through which stakeholders work to increase learner pathways and
University of Calgary will include a highly flexible 240-seat lecture                    facilitate student mobility and transferability of courses and
theatre with retractable seats, enabling reconfiguration into a                          programs.  In 2013-14, ACAT collaborated with the Government to
display area for student projects and student events.  The project,                      publish the first set of a series of new Student Mobility Reports.
which includes two new floors of advanced research labs and a                            These new reports, to be published annually, will help advance
major modernization of the existing building, will allow the                             understanding of student enrolment flows into, within, and out of
university to increase its engineering capacity by at least 400                          Alberta’s public post-secondary institutions, informing sound
undergraduate and graduate students.  The Ministry is providing                          policy and planning.
more than $142 million over four years towards this renovation,                          Learning 2.0
which will help Alberta’s advanced learning system provide the                           Technological progress has enabled exciting new ways to
skilled engineers needed to lead our industries and help Alberta                         communicate and share information, giving the advanced learning
become more competitive in the global marketplace.                                       system opportunities to better engage and support learners.
Supporting System Evolution                                                              Supporting Open Educational Resources
The Ministry collaborates with Alberta’s publicly funded                                 Open educational resources (OER) provide more accessible,
post-secondary institutions to navigate challenges and                                   flexible, and cost-effective learning opportunities for Albertans.
opportunities in a changing environment.  Strengthening the                              These resources include open-source materials such as electronic
Government’s partnerships with post-secondary institutions and                           textbooks, lesson plans, and multi-media resources, and are free of
focusing on achieving common objectives will lead to a more                              copyright royalties or licence fees.  Innovation and Advanced
efficient and sustainable advanced learning system that meets the                        Education has developed a comprehensive open educational
diverse needs of learners, the economy, and society.                                     resource initiative to support the development and use of such
Building a Common Vision                                                                 materials in the province.  Finding ways to integrate these
In an extensive collaboration effort, the Government engaged                             resources into post-secondary classrooms means students will
post-secondary institutions, student leaders, and faculty                                have access – at any time via any device – to more current material
associations in 2013-14 to develop common outcomes and                                   at lower costs.
indicators for Campus Alberta.  This shared articulation of what the                     Notably, on March 13, 2014, the premiers of Alberta, British
advanced learning system intends to achieve will enhance our                             Columbia, and Saskatchewan signed a Memorandum of
understanding of how this complex system is functioning and will                         Understanding to facilitate coordinated development and use of
inform strategic planning and decisions, including focused                               open educational resources and opportunities to leverage funding.
investments to improve outcomes.  As well, the Ministry worked                           This agreement will allow all three provinces to leverage OER
with post-secondary institutions to develop letters of expectation.                      efforts across jurisdictions and maximize benefits for students.

---PDF PAGE 15---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                                     Results Analysis                                                                            11

Fostering Global Citizenship                                                             Student Aid Alberta provided $53 million in Alberta grants and
We live in a world that is more globally connected than ever                             bursaries to student loan borrowers to give individuals incentive to
before.  The Ministry recognizes the importance of fostering                             access a post-secondary education and to reward completion.  This
international awareness and connections among Alberta’s                                  amount more than doubles funds provided in 2011-12.
students, researchers, and post-secondary institutions, and                              In August 2013, Student Aid Alberta began offering a new grant to
supports international study programs to this end.                                       low-income student loan borrowers in one-year undergraduate
In 2013-14, the Ministry funded the participation of over 800                            certificate programs.  This provincial grant allows these students to
Alberta students in international study abroad programs, double                          have more equitable access to grant funding, regardless of
the number from the previous year.  The Campus Alberta Grant For                         program credential, and will help more low-income students
International Learning (CAGFIL) program supports innovative                              achieve their educational goals.
education abroad programs that create unique international                               Rewarding Excellence
opportunities for Alberta students and faculty to study and work                         Innovation and Advanced Education rewards excellence in learning
internationally.  In addition, the Ministry announced 100                                through Alberta Scholarship Programs.  These programs administer
scholarships for Albertan post-secondary students to study in                            60 unique scholarships rewarding the achievements of Alberta
China in 2014.  These scholarships were given as part of Alberta’s                       high school and post-secondary students.  In 2013-14, over 37,000
participation in a consultation between the Council of Ministers of                      Alberta learners received over $72 million in scholarships.  These
Education, Canada (CMEC) and the People’s Republic of China.                             scholarships encourage Albertans to pursue learning opportunities
By finding efficiencies and cost-savings in existing programs, the                       and give learners an incentive to excel.
Ministry was able to expand existing study and internship abroad                         Included in these scholarships are rewards for excellence in
programs.  As well, the Ministry began implementing new                                  apprenticeship: in 2013-14, $750,000 in scholarships was awarded
learner-focused programs that include: new government                                    to 740 learners.  To encourage the participation of
internships for domestic students focusing on international and                          underrepresented learners, specific scholarships are designated to
intergovernmental issues in education, initiatives to increase                           support youth, female, and Aboriginal apprentices.  Seventeen
global awareness in Alberta’s classrooms, and support for Alberta                        Aboriginal apprentices and 39 female apprentices received
graduate students to start joint research with international                             scholarships.  As well, 275 scholarships of one thousand dollars
partners in priority areas.                                                              each were awarded to recognize the accomplishments of Alberta
Ensuring Access                                                                          high school students involved in the Registered Apprenticeship
Innovation and Advanced Education is committed to helping                                program.
Albertans gain the skills and knowledge they need to pursue their                        Engaging Underrepresented Learners
personal and professional goals.                                                         Engaging underrepresented learners in the advanced learning
Participation                                                                            system encourages individuals to reach their educational goals,
The percentage of Albertans aged 18-34 participating in                                  regardless of their life situation.  Educational success can, in turn,
post-secondary education (Endnote A) has historically been slightly                      expand career opportunities and improve living standards for
lower than the Canadian average (18% compared to 24%                                     graduates.  The Ministry is committed to ensuring that all
nationally in 2013), but this trend does not reflect the accessibility                   Albertans have equitable access to advanced learning
of learning opportunities in Alberta.  Rather, this difference can be                    opportunities.
explained by two factors: Alberta's thriving economy means that                          In 2013-14, the Ministry provided funding to not-for-profit
many Albertans choose to work rather than pursue post-secondary                          organizations and projects to support the engagement of women,
studies; and these employment opportunities also draw a high                             youth, and Aboriginal people in apprenticeship and trade-related
number of inter-provincial migrants, many of whom already                                learning opportunities.  Organizations and projects include
possess a post-secondary credential.  Rising post-secondary                              Women Building Futures, Careers: The Next Generation, Skills
enrolment rates (Endnote E) over the last nine years (138,709                            Canada Alberta, and the Northeast Alberta Apprenticeship
full-load equivalents in 2004-05 to 159,634 in 2012-13) support the                      Initiative.
conclusion that participation and access are at least somewhat                           The Ministry also worked closely with the Alberta Apprenticeship
discrete issues in Alberta.  In contrast to the participation rate, the                  and Industry Training Board and industry to support the
proportion of Albertans aged 25-64 who have completed                                    participation of women and Aboriginal people in skilled trades.
post-secondary education (the attainment rate) (Endnote F) has                           Currently, women make up 9% of registered apprentices in our
historically been comparable to the Canadian average (62%                                province.  As of December 31, 2013, there were 5,846 women
compared to 64% nationally in 2013).                                                     registered in Alberta as apprentices, an increase of 9% from the
Removing Financial Barriers                                                              previous year.  While Aboriginal apprentices make up only about
Student Aid Alberta                                                                      5% of the total number of apprentices in Alberta, the number of
                                                                                         registered Aboriginal apprentices has increased 50% since 2009: as
Student Aid Alberta provides grants, bursaries, and affordable                           of December 31, 2013, there were 3,292 registered Aboriginal
loans to Alberta post-secondary students who need support to                             apprentices compared to 2,190 in 2009.
cover tuition and mandatory fees, books and supplies, and/or                             Increasing Apprenticeship Opportunities
living costs while they are studying.  In 2013-14, Student Aid                           As Alberta’s economy continues to grow, and as the current skilled
Alberta provided over $384 million in Alberta student loans to                           trades workforce increasingly reaches retirement, it is important
nearly 58,000 students, which represents an increase of over 40%                         that the Ministry and industry proactively work to ensure that
in student loan borrowers over the past four years (from 40,000 in                       there are sufficient apprenticeship opportunities available to
2009-10).  This increase reflects changing economic conditions and                       Albertans.  The Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training Board
program changes that reduced eligibility barriers.  In 2013-14,

---PDF PAGE 16---
    12                                                                                 Results Analysis                                                      IAE Annual Report 2013-14

    collaborates with the Ministry to increase the supply of skilled                              and the Survey of Apprenticeship Graduates (SAG) (Endnote D),
    tradespeople in Alberta.  Through the Industry Champions                                      which captures responses specifically from recent apprenticeship
    Initiative, the Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training Board                            graduates.
    encourages industry to be proactive in hiring and training                                    Results from both the GOS and SAG have consistently shown a
    apprentices, and to implement strategies to support and                                       very high satisfaction of post-secondary graduates and
    encourage apprentices to progress and complete their programs.                                apprenticeship graduates: for the last four survey cycles, 90% or
    The Ministry continuously monitors the demand for technical                                   more of GOS respondents indicated that they were satisfied or very
    training in all trades and makes adjustments in the number of                                 satisfied with the quality of their educational experience, and 91%
    seats and location of training as needed.  Since 2011-12, the                                 or more of SAG respondents indicated that they were satisfied or
    number of technical training seats has increased by more than                                 very satisfied with the on-the-job training and technical training
    10%.                                                                                          they received.  These results suggest that Alberta’s advanced
    Ensuring Quality                                                                              learning system continues to meet the needs of learners.
    The Ministry and its partners continue to provide quality assurance                           The Ministry encourages lifelong learning for Albertans by
    in the advanced learning system through legislation, the Campus                               supporting a sustainable advanced learning system, enabling
    Alberta Quality Council, and the Apprenticeship and Industry                                  system evolution into the 21   century, ensuring access to st
    Training Board.  To assess graduate satisfaction with the quality of                          education for all Albertans, and providing high quality learning
    post-secondary education, the Ministry commissions two                                        experiences.  As citizens have opportunities to fulfill their potential
    extensive surveys biennially: the Post-Secondary Graduate                                     through advanced learning, they become the engine for Alberta’s
    Outcomes Survey (GOS) (Endnote B), which captures responses from                              social and economic evolution.
    graduates two years after completing a post-secondary program;

      Goal 2        Alberta demonstrates excellence in research, innovation and commercialization1


    Performance Measures                                                                                                                                 Current
                                                                                                                    Prior Years’ Results                 Actual       Target    Endnotes

*   Total sponsored research revenue attracted by Alberta’s comprehensive academic              $M        791.2        818.5       850.4       759.6        767.8       765.0    G
    research institutions indicates the research capability, capacity and competitiveness of            2008-09      2009-10     2010-11     2011-12      2012-13
    Alberta’s comprehensive academic and research institutions, and helps the Ministry
    understand the province’s progress in research and innovation.
    Venture capital invested in Alberta  helps indicate the capacity and capability 2           $M          60.6        58.9       112.3         86.3       154.9        55.53   H
    available to support innovation and knowledge industry growth.                                         2009         2010        2011        2012         2013

    1  Due to a restructuring of the Ministry, the 2013-14 annual report will not include Goal 2 from the 2013-16 business plan.  Goals 2 and 3         Target exceeded
       in the 2013-14 annual report will correspond with Goals 3 and 4, respectively, in the 2013-16 business plan.                                     Target met
    2  A restatement of venture capital data was required for all years due to the discontinuation of VCReporter.  The new data source is
       Thomson ONE, a product provided by Thomson Reuters.  For details, see Endnote H (pg. 94).                                                        Target not met
    3  The published target for 2013 was expressed using VCReporter figures.  Due to the discontinuation of VCReporter, the current results             No target set
       are from a different data source, Thomson ONE.  Due to VCReporter and Thomson ONE using different methodologies, the 2013 target
       and 2013 results are incomparable.  Therefore, the target cannot apply to the 2013 result.  For details, see Endnote H (pg. 94).

*   Indicates Performance Measures that have been reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General as part of the Ministry’s audit plan.  See page 9 for selection criteria.

    Alberta’s research and innovation ecosystem plays a vital role in                             Attracting Research Funding
    the province’s future.  To support Alberta’s growing knowledge                                Sponsored research revenue attracted by Alberta’s comprehensive
    economy, Innovation and Advanced Education is committed to                                    academic and research institutions reflects the province’s research
    fostering a robust research and innovation environment: one that                              capability and capacity.  Success in acquiring sponsored research
    attracts talent and investment, develops productive partnerships,                             revenue is accomplished through highly competitive, excellence-
    and evolves in a coordinated and strategic way.                                               driven research activities.  The more sponsorship these institutions
    Enhancing Capacity                                                                            can draw, the better they are able to attract and retain world-class
    Attracting Research Talent                                                                    researchers and graduate students, strengthening the workforce
                                                                                                  supporting Alberta’s innovation capacity.
    To thrive in a global knowledge economy, Alberta needs to attract                             Though it has fluctuated somewhat from year to year, sponsored
    exceptional research talent from around the world.  In 2011, the                              research revenue attracted by the province’s comprehensive
    Government created the Campus Alberta Innovation Program                                      academic and research institutions (Endnote G) has increased over
    Chairs, a program designed to recruit research leaders to Alberta in                          the last 10 years, rising from $622 million in 2003-04 to just over
    the fields of energy and environment, food and nutrition,                                     $850 million in 2010-11.  This increase suggests an overall
    neuroscience/prions, and water.  Since the competitive recruitment                            improvement in research capability, capacity, and competitiveness
    process began, 12 of 18 chairs have been filled, and recruitment is                           in these institutions.  Subsequently, in 2011-12, there was a 10%
    in progress for the remaining six.  Notably, Alberta’s                                        decrease stemming from the completion of provincial capital
    comprehensive academic and research institutions have worked                                  funding initiatives. From 2011-12 to 2012-13, sponsored research
    together to recruit in complementary research areas, leveraging                               revenue increased by 1% as a result of a substantial increase in
    existing institutional strengths to build a provincial network of                             industry funding, despite downward pressure stemming from the
    expertise in these priority areas.                                                            flattening of provincial and federal funding.

---PDF PAGE 17---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                                    Results Analysis                                                                           13

Encouraging Venture Capital Investment                                                  Evolving Alberta’s Innovation Ecosystem
Venture capital investment helps to support an innovative and                           Strengthening Alberta’s innovation capacity is critical to ensuring
competitive economy.  In 2013-14, the Ministry collaborated with                        long-term economic competitiveness.  The Ministry is engaging
Alberta Investment Management Corporation, Alberta Enterprise                           the research and innovation community to improve collaboration,
Corporation, and the Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance on an                       responsiveness, and global connections.  Significant stakeholder
access to capital and mentorship initiative.  This work included                        input began in 2013 through an Expert Panel that consulted with
stakeholder engagement to explore policy and program options.                           over 160 stakeholders and made recommendations about the
Developing investment capacity in this way will bolster the success                     evolution of Alberta’s research and innovation ecosystem.  This
of our venture capital industry and the innovation it supports.                         engagement continues as the Ministry meets with innovation
Venture capital investment (Endnote H) in Alberta increased                             leaders to share and discuss the report and policy framework.  In
dramatically in 2013, growing 79.4% from just over $86 million in                       spring 2014, the Government approved the establishment of the
2012 to almost $155 million in 2013.  A number of factors have                          Alberta Innovation Council, which will advise the Premier and
contributed to this increase.  For example, the Scientific Research                     Cabinet on innovation policies, strategies, and initiatives.
and Experimental Development Tax Credit Program was enhanced                            Members will come from the Government, Campus Alberta,
in 2012, incenting early stage investment.  As well, some sectors                       innovation service providers, and industry.
that have traditionally accounted for a modest proportion of                            Together, the Ministry and stakeholders will develop a shared
Alberta’s venture capital investment emerged as significant                             understanding of the challenges faced by the system and the
contributors.  For example, the computer software industry                              actions needed to address them.  Such coordinated system
reported a record high venture capital investment of just over                          evolution will enable more collaboration between academia and
$64 million in 2013, well above its historical range of $1 million to                   industry, supporting research that is aligned with Alberta’s
$11 million.                                                                            economic and social needs.
Strategic Connections                                                                   Fostering Social Innovation
Creating Research and Innovation Partnerships                                           The Ministry’s efforts to transform the innovation ecosystem
Alberta’s research and innovation system is successfully                                include thinking beyond new technologies: resolving complex
collaborating with partners.  This year saw the development of                          social issues requires thinking outside traditional government
new relationships and the strengthening of existing partnerships                        approaches.  In spring 2014, the Government of Alberta introduced
with corporate and research organizations around the globe.                             the Savings Management Act, proposing to establish the Social
                                                                                        Innovation Endowment.  Social innovation is the process of
Siemens Canada                                                                          translating new ideas into tangible social impact and the Social
The Ministry strengthened its partnerships with the research and                        Innovation Endowment will help foster solution-oriented
innovation sector by signing a Memorandum of Understanding                              approaches to solving Alberta’s complex social challenges.  The
with Siemens Canada.  This partnership provides a framework for                         endowment will be established with an immediate capitalization
introducing Siemens’ research and development capabilities to                           of $500 million, and an additional $500 million in 2015-16,
Alberta’s innovation system and Alberta companies, with the goal                        complementing Alberta’s existing innovation infrastructure.
of accelerating technology commercialization.  Siemens is also                          Annual disbursements will start in 2015-16.
establishing its Canadian Energy Headquarters in Calgary.  This                         Understanding Research and Innovation in Alberta
development will create new job opportunities for Albertans;                            The Survey of Innovation and Business Strategy
increase access to corporate decision makers for technology-
focused, small- to medium-sized enterprises in Alberta; and                             Understanding the innovation landscape in Canada helps
facilitate technology commercialization in Alberta’s economy.                           Government and industry develop informed strategies and policies
Johnson & Johnson                                                                       to foster innovation.  The Survey of Innovation and Business
In partnership with Janssen Inc., part of the Janssen                                   Strategy (SIBS) gathers information about innovation in business
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, and the Alberta                          strategies and practices in Canada.  Innovation and Advanced
Diabetes Foundation, the Ministry contributed $200,000 to the                           Education has partnered with Statistics Canada and other
$600,000 Johnson & Johnson Diabetes Research Fund to support                            provinces (Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, and the Maritimes) to
novel research in diabetes, focusing on a high potential for                            improve and expand SIBS by making it more precise and rigorous.
commercialization.  This competitive, three-year fund will help                         This means Alberta will be able to develop innovation
advance healthcare technologies in Alberta.                                             performance metrics and compare them against Canadian
                                                                                        benchmarks.  The improved survey will provide the Ministry with
Promoting Alberta Internationally to Attract Investment                                 data necessary for more informed innovation policy and program
In addition to strengthening research and innovation partnerships                       development.
within the province, the Ministry is working to create partnerships                     Provincial Scientific Activities Survey
internationally.  In 2013-14, the Ministry conducted missions to                        In 2012, Statistics Canada discontinued the Provincial Scientific
Germany, Switzerland, France, the United Kingdom, Australia, the                        Activities Survey, which collected data on the province’s
United States, and China to sign research and development                               expenditures on research.  This data is important for informed
agreements in resource development, agriculture, life sciences,                         policy development by the Government and our partners in the
aerospace technologies, energy technologies, and industrial                             research and innovation ecosystem.  The Ministry has developed a
research.  These missions pave the way for increased foreign                            replacement survey – the Government of Alberta Research
investment in Alberta’s research institutions, employment                               Investments Survey – so that this information will continue to be
opportunities for Albertans, and market access and sales for small-                     available.  In 2013-14, the Ministry administered the survey and is
and medium-sized enterprises in Alberta.                                                preparing the results for publication.

---PDF PAGE 18---
    14                                                                              Results Analysis                                                     IAE Annual Report 2013-14

    Alberta is competing in a context of increasing globalization and                          environment by attracting research talent and funding, enabling
    technological progress.  Innovation and Advanced Education is                              system evolution, creating strategic partnerships, encouraging
    helping to create conditions for Alberta to thrive in this evolving                        new investment, and gathering strategic data.



                                                                                                            1
      Goal 3       Alberta’s economy is competitive and sustainable


    Performance Measures                                                                                                                            Current
                                                                                                                 Prior Years’ Results                Actual      Target    Endnotes
*   Manufacturing and Business Service Industry Gross Domestic Product (GDP)             $ billion      66.0        67.6        71.6        74.4        76.4        76.6    I
    helps indicate economic growth and diversification.                                % change        -4.8%      +2.4%       +5.8%       +3.9%       +2.7%       +4.0%
                                                                                                        2009        2010        2011        2012        2013
    Change in Manufacturing and Business Service               3-year average annual growth rate                  +1.3%       +0.5%       +0.7%    Result not     +2.0%     J
    Industry Labour Productivity helps indicate economic                  dollars per hour worked                 $52.10      $52.10      $52.40   available2
    growth and diversification.                                                                                     2010        2011        2012

    1  Due to a restructuring of the Ministry, the 2013-14 annual report will not include Goal 2 from the 2013-16 business plan.  Goals 2 and 3     Target exceeded
       in the 2013-14 annual report will correspond with Goals 3 and 4, respectively, in the 2013-16 business plan.                                 Target met
    2  Statistics Canada did not release new data in time for the June 2014 publication of this report.  For details, see Endnote J (pg. 95).
                                                                                                                                                    Target not met
*   Indicates Performance Measures that have been reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General as part of the Ministry’s audit plan.               No target set
    See page 9 for selection criteria.

    Innovation and Advanced Education works to support vibrant and                             Understanding Our Economy
    sustainable economic development provincially and regionally.                              Alberta Economic Dashboard
    This means leveraging Alberta’s strengths for lasting prosperity.  To                      Alberta businesses need information about the provincial
    achieve this goal, the Ministry engages with the business                                  economy to make informed decisions in a competitive
    community, fosters economic diversification, and provides support                          environment.  This year, the Ministry released the Alberta
    to businesses and communities.                                                             Economic Dashboard, an online information source providing
    Engaging Alberta’s Business Community                                                      investors, businesses, and Albertans with 26 economic indicators
    Enabling a Coordinated Approach to Economic                                                for the Alberta economy.  The information is available in open data
    Development                                                                                format so that users can access and incorporate the data in their
    A significant number of organizations in Alberta share the                                 own websites.  The Alberta Economic Dashboard provides
    common goal of developing our economy for sustained prosperity.                            up-to-date economic information in one accessible, intuitive
    The Ministry is collaborating with a team of economic                                      website.
    development agencies across the province to begin developing an                            Capitalizing on Our Strengths
    economic development framework.  A framework will identify how                             While natural resources continue to anchor Alberta’s economy,
    economic agents in Alberta can work in a more coordinated way                              future economic growth depends on diversification that
    for common outcomes.  The framework will focus on expanding                                complements and adds value to the province’s resource base.
    market access; improving resource-based and resource-related                               Attracting Petrochemical Investment
    industries; enabling firms with high growth potential to broaden
    Alberta’s economic base; and inspiring entrepreneurs to innovate,                          Broadening our economic base means finding new ways to
    commercialize, and expand businesses across the province.                                  maximize the value from Alberta’s resources.  In collaboration with
    Supporting Small Business                                                                  Alberta Energy and Alberta's Industrial Heartland Association, the
    Small businesses are the lifeblood of Alberta’s economy.  They                             Ministry led petrochemical investment attraction missions to
    make up about 95% of all businesses in Alberta and are                                     Germany, the United Arab Emirates, and the United States in
    responsible for about 35% of all private sector employment.                                2013-14.  In addition to promoting investment in natural gas and
    Supporting small businesses to grow and excel in global markets                            natural gas liquids projects, these missions explored the best ways
    helps empower Alberta’s entrepreneurs and supports the                                     to transform natural gas into petrochemicals.  Through this
    economic growth of the province.  The Ministry is developing a                             transformation, roughly nine times the value can be added to the
    strategy to help Alberta foster small business and entrepreneurs,                          raw energy resource.  By attracting investment into the
    beginning with a series of stakeholder consultations with small                            petrochemical sector, the Government is working to add
    business owners throughout Alberta.  The Ministry is using                                 significant value to this abundant resource.
    feedback from these consultations to shape the strategy.                                   Focusing on the Industrial Sector
                                                                                               Alberta’s industrial sectors are surrounded by industrial supply
                                                                                               chains: transportation, manufacturing and construction, upstream
                                                                                               energy services, intra-provincial pipeline networks, and
                                                                                               downstream value-added energy developments.  Value-added
                                                                                               development can open new markets for our products and services
                                                                                               and help to diversify Alberta’s economy.

---PDF PAGE 19---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                                    Results Analysis                                                                           15

Unconventional Resource Industry Development                                            Focusing on Results
The Ministry is collaborating with industry to support the                              Over the last two years, the Government has been reviewing each
sustainable growth of the unconventional resources industry.  In                        of its programs and services to ensure they are effective, efficient,
2013-14, key projects included guidebooks for the industry and                          and relevant, and that they deliver the outcomes Albertans expect.
investment, industry surveys, industry seminars, and various                            In 2012-13, the Ministry led a review of economic development
summits and missions. These projects support industry to                                programs, and in 2013-14, the Ministry began to implement those
encourage innovation, mitigate competitive challenges, and                              recommendations.  They include delivering a more aligned and
improve economic performance.                                                           accountable economic development effort by developing an
Manufacturing for Oil and Gas Supply Chains                                             economic development framework; using a performance
In 2013-14, the Ministry promoted growth in the industrial sector                       management system that aligns Ministry, Government of Alberta,
by delivering the Manufacturing for Oil and Gas Supply Chains                           and program performance measures to provide incentive for
Sector Summit.  This unique event brought together leaders from                         beneficial behaviours across the system and effectively measure
industry, government, the innovation network, academia, industry                        progress towards common outcomes; clarifying mandates of
associations, and economic development agencies to discuss                              economic development systems and specific sector programs;
opportunities for alignment and sector growth.                                          expanding Alberta's international profile and access to markets;
                                                                                        and promoting program improvements, redesign, or transition for
Heavy Industrial Construction Productivity                                              programs that may have achieved their mandate.
The Government is also fostering engagement across Alberta’s                            Responding to the 2013 Alberta Flood
heavy industrial construction supply chain to encourage                                 In June 2013, 30 communities across the province were devastated
innovation, implement best practices, and mitigate competitive                          by unprecedented flooding.  The Ministry contributed to the
challenges.  Strengthening these partnerships will help support                         province’s flood response by providing approximately $970,000 to
the sustainable growth of the industry.  The department is working                      support communities and small businesses.
with industry leaders in this sector to improve productivity and                        Economic Disaster Recovery Project
cost competitiveness by promoting and adopting best practices in
industrial construction and addressing further constraints to                           The Ministry collaborated with other ministries and the Economic
competitiveness.  Initiatives underway to help achieve this include                     Developers Association of Alberta to deliver the Economic Disaster
benchmarking projects, best practice development, and                                   Recovery Project, which supports local and regional economies
collaborative working groups.                                                           affected by the flood.  This project provides strategic economic
Manufacturing and Business Service Industry Growth                                      development support for business retention, expansion, and
Growth in the manufacturing and business service industries                             attraction, allowing communities to recover more quickly and be
demonstrates strength in value-added sectors of Alberta’s                               better economically prepared for future possible disasters.
economy, which helps to keep Alberta’s economy more stable                              Hand-Up Plan
during periods of economic uncertainty.  Gross domestic product                         The survival and success of small businesses helps to support the
(GDP) and labour productivity are key indicators to track growth in                     economic recovery of Alberta’s communities.  In response to the
these key value-added industries.                                                       flood, the Hand-Up Plan provided immediate financial assistance
The GDP for manufacturing and business service industries in                            for small business, agricultural producers, First Nations enterprises,
Alberta (Endnote I) has followed an upward trend since 2009,                            self-employed contractors, and not-for-profit organizations
increasing by 2.7% between 2012 and 2013 – from just over                               severely affected in southern Alberta and the Regional
$74 million to just over $76 million.  Manufacturing and business                       Municipality of Wood Buffalo.  The Government of Alberta
service industry GDP is affected by many external factors,                              partnered with financial institutions, such as the Agricultural
including the status of the United States and global economies;                         Financial Services Corporation, to provide partially guaranteed
the level of energy, natural resource, and commodity prices; and                        low-interest loans and interest rebates to affected organizations.
Alberta’s labour market.  The Ministry is focused on developing                         Innovation and Advanced Education provided strategic policy and
strategies to help strengthen the manufacturing and business                            program planning to support this initiative.  The Hand-Up Plan
service industries.  These strategies are helping to create a                           provided a quick response to the disaster, ensuring a faster
province-wide culture of innovation that is enhancing cooperation,                      recovery for affected communities.
collaboration, and convergence; enhancing capacity for                                  Initiatives that engage with the business community, foster
technology commercialization; increasing the rate of technological                      economic diversification, and provide emergency support to
advancement; and increasing business investment in research and                         businesses and communities demonstrate the Ministry’s
development.                                                                            commitment to vibrant and sustainable economic development in
                                                                                        the province.  By taking a collaborative approach to economic
                                                                                        development and by leveraging strengths, Alberta is
                                                                                        well-positioned for long-term prosperity and success.

---PDF PAGE 20---
16                                                                                 Results Analysis                                                       IAE Annual Report 2013-14
                               Financial Highlights

                               The consolidated Ministry Financial Statements include:
                               „   the Department of Innovation and Advanced                                  „   Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment
                                   Education,                                                                     Solutions,
                               „   the Access to the Future Fund,                                             „   Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures, and
                               „   the Alberta Enterprise Corporation,                                        „   Alberta Public Post-Secondary Institutions.
                               „   Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions,
                               Revenue                                                                                                                                  (in thousands)
                                                                                                2014            2013
                                                                                               Actual          Actual
                                                                                                               (Restated)
                              Government Transfers
                                  Government of Alberta Grants                               $   368,708    $   380,414
                                  Federal Grants                                                 310,252        268,227
                              Investment Income                                                  197,116        117,712
                              Premiums, Fees and Licences                                          7,329           6,798
                              Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                   1,087,280      1,036,985
                              Sales, Rentals and Services                                        679,380        644,715
                              Donations, Grants and Contributions                                364,021        375,197
                              Other Revenue                                                       13,232           5,056

                                                                                             $ 3,027,318    $ 2,835,104

                               Revenue increased by $192 million from the prior year.  This is due to an increase in grants from the Government of
                               Canada, primarily at the University of Calgary for the Faculty of Medicine and UC Qatar, as well as increases at other
                               Post-Secondary Institutions.  Investment income increased by $79 million due to stronger market conditions.  There
                               was an increase in Tuition and Non-credit Courses of $50 million, attributed to increased international student
                               enrolment, increased market modifier fees and increased student fees (not tuition fees).  Finally, an increase in
                               Sales, Rentals and Services of $35 million was attributed to cost sharing agreements offset by excess earnings
                               agreements, new residences opening and insurance claims from flooding.
                               Expenses                                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                                                                                                2014            2013
                                                                                               Actual          Actual
                                                                                                               (Restated)

                              Public Post-Secondary Institutions                             $ 5,134,586    $ 4,999,033
                              Alberta Innovates Corporations                                     151,767        144,408
                              Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                       1,115           2,055
                              Department
                                  Support for Adult Learning                                      69,334          76,594
                                  Apprenticeship Delivery                                         35,673          39,523
                                  Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                       18,932          17,318
                                  Innovation and Technology Commercialization                     18,655          18,635
                                  Student Aid                                                    188,556        133,843
                                  Enterprise                                                      16,738          17,602
                                  Ministry Support Services                                       38,077          35,548
                                  Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                      658              —
                                  2013 Alberta Flooding                                              393              —

                                                                                               5,674,484      5,484,559

                              Net Operating Results                                          $(2,647,166)   $(2,649,455)

                               Expenses also increased by $190 million from the prior year.  This is primarily due to increased salaries, wages and
                               employee benefits ($106 million), grants to individuals and external organizations ($39 million), provision for future
                               cost of student loans issued ($31 million) and other provisions (doubtful accounts, pensions and employee
                               benefits) ($14 million).

---PDF PAGE 21---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                      Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                    17


                      Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education
                      Consolidated Financial Statements
                      March 31, 2014                                                                                Audited Information
                      Independent Auditor’s Report                                                                              18
                      Consolidated Statement of Operations                                                                      19
                      Consolidated Statement of Financial Position                                                              20
                      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                                                                      21
                      Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements                                                            22
                      Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements

                        1   Consolidated Revenues                                                                               35

                        2   Consolidated Expenses Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                          36

                        3   Consolidated Budget Reconciliation                                                                  36

                        4   Consolidated Allocated Costs                                                                        37

                        5   Consolidated Portfolio Investments                                                                  37

                        6   Consolidated Deferred Revenues                                                                      38

                        7   Consolidated Related Party Transactions                                                             40

                        8   Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements                                          41

---PDF PAGE 22---
18                                                            Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                     IAE Annual Report 2013-14






                           Independent Auditor’s Report


                           To the Members of the Legislative Assembly


                           Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
                           I have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced
                           Education, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at March 31, 2014, and the
                           consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant
                           accounting policies and other explanatory information.
                           Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
                           Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in
                           accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management
                           determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material
                           misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
                           Auditor’s Responsibility
                           My responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted
                           my audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply
                           with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
                           consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
                           An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
                           consolidated financial statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the
                           assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or
                           error.  In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and
                           fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
                           the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal
                           control.  An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of
                           accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
                           financial statements.
                           I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                           Opinion
                           In my opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
                           the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education as at March 31, 2014, and the results of its operations and its cash
                           flows for the year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.

                           original signed by

                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           June 9, 2014
                           Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 23---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                               Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                               19
                                 Consolidated Statement of Operations

                                 for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                                     (in thousands)
                                                                                                                 2014                      2013
                                                                                                     Constructed
                                                                                                        Budget           Actual           Actual
                                                                                                       (Schedule 3)                     (Restated Note 3)
                                 Revenues (Note 2(b) and Schedule 1)
                                     Government Transfers
                                         Government of Alberta Grants                                $   397,858      $   368,708      $   380,414
                                        Federal Grants                                                   371,177          310,252          268,227
                                     Investment Income                                                   128,096          197,116          117,712
                                     Premiums, Fees and Licences                                            7,160            7,329            6,798
                                     Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                    1,069,434        1,087,280        1,036,985
                                     Sales, Rentals and Services                                         655,888          679,380          644,715
                                     Donations, Grants and Contributions                                 261,522          364,021          375,197
                                     Other Revenue                                                          4,427           13,232            5,056
                                                                                                       2,895,562        3,027,318        2,835,104

                                 Expenses – Directly Incurred (Note 2(b) and Schedules 2 and 4)
                                     Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                5,119,433        5,134,586        4,999,033
                                     Alberta Innovates Corporations                                      189,636          151,767          144,408
                                     Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                         1,150            1,115            2,055
                                     Department
                                        Support for Adult Learning                                         46,541           69,334           76,594
                                        Apprenticeship Delivery                                            38,835           35,673           39,523
                                        Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                          11,000           18,932           17,318
                                        Innovation and Technology Commercialization                        18,035           18,655           18,635
                                        Student Aid                                                      200,854          188,556          133,843
                                        Enterprise                                                         16,325           16,738           17,602
                                        Ministry Support Services                                          36,047           38,077           35,548
                                        Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                           —              658               —
                                        2013 Alberta Flooding                                                   —              393               —
                                                                                                       5,677,856        5,674,484        5,484,559

                                 Net Operating Results                                               $(2,782,294)     $(2,647,166)     $(2,649,455)

                                 The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 24---
20                                                                        Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                      IAE Annual Report 2013-14
                                  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

                                  as at March 31, 2014                                                                                                                                      (in thousands)
                                                                                                            2014             2013
                                                                                                                          (Restated Note 3)
                                  Assets
                                      Cash and Cash Equivalents (Note 4)                               $  1,126,506     $   1,139,406
                                      Accounts Receivable (Note 5)                                          326,348           403,677
                                      Portfolio Investments (Schedule 5)                                  3,994,542         3,585,780
                                      Loans and Advances (Note 6)                                         1,122,630           861,170
                                      Tangible Capital Assets (Note 7)                                    7,541,367         7,386,223
                                      Inventory                                                               27,628           27,826
                                      Prepaid Expenses                                                        65,112           48,366

                                                                                                       $14,204,133      $13,452,448

                                  Liabilities
                                      Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities (Note 8)                $    813,543     $     697,739
                                      Deferred Revenue (Schedule 6)                                       2,332,808         2,236,498
                                      Long Term Debt (Note 9)                                               866,730           711,932
                                      Employee Future Benefits (Note 10)                                    270,681           251,355
                                                                                                          4,283,762         3,897,524

                                  Net Assets
                                      Net Assets at Beginning of Year (Note 3)                            8,012,106         8,851,887
                                      Adjustment to Net Assets (Note 17)                                      66,014       (1,125,909)
                                      Net Operating Results                                               (2,647,166)      (2,649,455)
                                      Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                        2,813,198         2,935,583
                                      Net Assets before Endowments                                        8,244,152         8,012,106
                                      Post-Secondary Institution Endowments (Note 11)                     1,676,219         1,542,818
                                      Net Assets at End of Year                                           9,920,371         9,554,924

                                                                                                       $14,204,133      $13,452,448

                                  Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities (Notes 12 and 13)
                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 25---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                                Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                                 21
                                  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

                                  for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                                       (in thousands)
                                                                                                                                             2014             2013
                                                                                                                                                           (Restated Note 3)
                                  Operating Transactions
                                     Net Operating Results                                                                               $(2,647,166)     $(2,649,455)
                                     Non-cash Items included in Net Operating Results
                                         Amortization                                                                                        455,048          447,681
                                         Expended Capital Recognized as Revenue                                                               (74,698)         (56,004)
                                         Write-down and Loss on Disposal of Tangible Capital Assets                                            25,219           19,235
                                         Donation of Capital Assets                                                                           (39,648)         (11,214)
                                         Valuation Adjustments
                                            Provision for Employee Future Benefits                                                             19,326           17,441
                                            Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                                                  35,367            3,530
                                            Student Loans Valuation Adjustments                                                               (18,144)          (9,373)
                                            Provision for Vacation Pay and Other Provisions                                                     5,893                66
                                                                                                                                          (2,238,803)       (2,238,093)

                                     Decrease in Accounts Receivable                                                                           77,329           53,449
                                     Increase in Prepaid Expenses                                                                             (16,746)          (2,934)
                                     Decrease in Inventory                                                                                        198            4,435
                                     Increase in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                                    111,016            24,865
                                     Deferred Revenue
                                         Increase in Deferred Revenue                                                                        171,008            73,700
                                         Consolidation Adjustments Relating to Post-Secondary Institutions                                     60,166           59,954
                                     Cash Applied to Operating Transactions                                                               (1,835,832)       (2,024,624)

                                  Capital Transactions
                                     Acquisition of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 7)                                                        (592,574)         (631,026)
                                     Proceeds from Disposal of Tangible Capital Assets                                                          1,554            1,656
                                     Cash Applied to Capital Transactions                                                                   (591,020)         (629,370)

                                  Investing Transactions
                                     Student Loan Disbursements                                                                             (376,965)         (336,418)
                                     Student Loan Repayments                                                                                   98,282           75,223
                                     Purchases of Portfolio Investments                                                                   (2,301,923)         (681,630)
                                     Sale of Portfolio Investments                                                                         1,893,161          491,120
                                     Cash Applied to Investing Transactions                                                                 (687,445)         (451,705)

                                  Financing Transactions
                                     Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                                                          2,813,198        2,935,583
                                     Increase in Endowment Funds (Note 11)                                                                   133,401            52,709
                                     Debt Issues                                                                                             207,088            43,866
                                     Debt Retirement                                                                                          (52,290)         (30,704)
                                     Cash Provided by Financing Transactions                                                               3,101,397        3,001,454

                                  Decrease in Cash and Cash Equivalents                                                                       (12,900)        (104,245)
                                  Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                                             1,139,406        1,243,651

                                  Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                                                 $ 1,126,506      $ 1,139,406

                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 26---
22                                                            Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                       IAE Annual Report 2013-14
                             Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

                             March 31, 2014


                 Note 1      Authority and Purpose

                             The Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education has been designated as responsible for various Acts by the
                             Government Organization Act, Chapter G-10, revised Statutes of Alberta 2000 and its regulations.  Below are the
                             organizations that form the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education and the authority under which each
                             organization operates.  Schedule 8 provides a detailed listing of entities included in the organizational groupings.

                             Organization                                               Authority
                             Department of Innovation and Advanced Education            Government Organization Act
                             Access to the Future Fund                                  Access to the Future Act
                             Alberta Enterprise Corporation                             Alberta Enterprise Corporation Act
                             Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions                          Alberta Research and Innovation Act
                             Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions
                             Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures
                             Public Post-Secondary Institutions                         Post-secondary Learning Act
                             In support of Alberta’s vision, Innovation and Advanced Education’s purpose is to assist Alberta to be a learning and
                             innovative society.

                Note 2       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices

                             These consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting
                             standards.
                     (a)     Reporting Entity
                             The reporting entity is the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education, for which the Minister of Innovation and
                             Advanced Education is accountable.  The accounts of the Department are fully consolidated with the entities listed in
                             Schedule 8 on a line-by-line basis.  Revenue and expense, capital, investing and financing transactions and related
                             asset and liability accounts between the consolidated entities have been eliminated.  Accounting policies have been
                             adjusted to conform with those of the Ministry.
                             The year-end of the Access to the Future Fund, Alberta Enterprise Corporation, Alberta Innovates Corporations,
                             University of Alberta, University of Calgary, University of Lethbridge, Athabasca University and the Banff Centre is
                             March 31.
                             The year-end for colleges, technical institutes, MacEwan University and Mount Royal University is June 30.
                             Transactions of these organizations that have occurred between the period July 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014, and are
                             $1 million or greater that significantly affect the consolidated accounts, have been recorded.
                     (b)     Basis of Financial Reporting
                             Revenues
                             All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services have not
                             been provided by year end is recorded as deferred revenue.
                             Investment income earned from restricted sources is deferred and recognized when the stipulations imposed have
                             been met.  Gains and losses on investments are not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations until
                             realized.
                             Government Transfers
                             Transfers from Government of Alberta, federal, and other governments are referred to as government transfers.
                             Government transfers and the associated externally restricted investment income are recorded as deferred revenue
                             if the terms for use of the transfer, or the terms along with the Ministry’s actions and communications as to the use
                             of the transfer, create a liability.  These transfers are recognized as revenue as the terms are met and, when
                             applicable, the Ministry complies with its communicated use of the transfer.
                             All other government transfers, without terms for use of the transfer, are recorded as revenue when the Ministry is
                             eligible to receive the funds.

---PDF PAGE 27---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                      Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                23


                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)

                             Donations and Non-Government Grants
                             Donations and non-government grants are received from individuals, corporations, and private sector not-for-profit
                             organizations.  Donations and non-government grants may be unrestricted or externally restricted for operating or
                             capital purposes.  Unrestricted donations and non-government grants are recorded as revenue in the year received
                             or in the year the funds are committed.  Externally restricted donations, non-government grants, and realized gains
                             and losses for the associated externally restricted investment income are recorded as deferred revenue if the term for
                             their use, or the terms along with the Ministry’s actions and communications as to the use, create a liability.  These
                             resources are recognized as the terms are met and, when applicable, the Ministry complies with its communicated
                             use.
                             Grants and Donations of or for Land
                             The Ministry recognizes transfers and donations for the purchase of land as a liability when received, and as revenue
                             when the Ministry purchases the land.  The Ministry recognizes in-kind contributions of land as revenue at the fair
                             value of the land.  When the Ministry cannot determine the fair value, it records such in-kind contributions at a
                             nominal value of $1.
                             Expenses
                             Directly Incurred
                             Directly incurred expenses are those costs the Ministry has primary responsibility and accountability for, as reflected
                             in the Government’s budget documents.  In addition to program operating expenses such as salaries and supplies,
                             etc., directly incurred expenses also include:

                             „   amortization of tangible capital assets,

                             „   inventory consumed,

                             „   pension costs which comprise the cost of employer contributions for current service of employees during the
                                  year, and

                             „   valuation adjustments which include changes in the valuation allowances used to reflect financial assets at their
                                  net recoverable or other appropriate value.  Valuation adjustments also represent the change in management’s
                                  estimate of future payments arising from obligations relating to Universities Academic Pension Plan, student
                                  loans and vacation pay.
                             Grants are recognized as expenses when authorized and eligibility criteria, if any, are met.
                             Incurred by Others
                             Services contributed by other entities in support of the Ministry’s operations are not recognized and are allocated to
                             programs to show the full cost in Schedule 4.
                             Valuation of Financial Assets and Liabilities
                             Fair value is the amount of consideration agreed upon in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable,
                             willing parties who are under no compulsion to act.
                             The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable and accrued liabilities are
                             estimated to approximate their carrying values because of the short-term nature of these instruments.  The fair value
                             of long-term debt approximates its carrying value as interest rates approximate the market value.  Fair values of
                             loans and advances and liability for student loans issued are not reported as there is no organized financial market
                             for the instruments and it is not practicable within constraints of timeliness or cost to estimate the fair value with
                             sufficient reliability.
                             Assets
                             Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                             for consumption in the normal course of operations.  Financial assets of the Ministry are limited to cash and financial
                             claims, such as advances to and receivables from other organizations, employees and other individuals.
                             Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value.  Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis.
                             Portfolio Investments are recorded at cost.  Gains and losses on investments are recognized when an investment is
                             sold or when there is a permanent impairment in the value of an investment.
                             Loans and Advances are recorded at cost net of the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy and
                             the allowance for repayment assistance.

---PDF PAGE 28---
24                                                               Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                           IAE Annual Report 2013-14


                   Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)

                              Tangible capital assets of the Ministry are recorded at historical cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over the
                              estimated useful lives of the assets.  Donated tangible capital assets are recorded at their fair value at the time of
                              contribution.  The threshold for capitalizing new systems development is $250,000 and the threshold for major
                              enhancements is $100,000.  The threshold for all other tangible capital assets is $5,000 and $1,000 as determined by
                              the entities.  All land is capitalized.
                              Amortization is only charged if the tangible capital asset is in use.
                              When physical assets (tangible capital assets) are gifted or sold for a nominal sum, the net book value of these
                              physical assets less any nominal proceeds are recorded as grants in kind.  Unrealized gains and losses on transfers to
                              controlled entities are eliminated on consolidation.
                              Expenses for patents owned by the Ministry as a result of research activity are not capitalized due to the uncertain
                              value of benefits that may accrue to the Ministry.
                              Expenses on the acquisition or development of other intangible assets including intellectual capital are not
                              capitalized as currently there is no acceptable methodology for measuring the value of future benefits accruing to
                              the Ministry.
                              Post-secondary institutions have collections consisting of historical artifacts and provincial, national and
                              international works of art.  The value of these collections is not recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
                              Liabilities
                              Liabilities are recorded to the extent that they represent present obligations as a result of events and transactions
                              occurring prior to the end of the fiscal year.  The settlement of liabilities will result in sacrifice of economic benefits in
                              the future.
                              Payments under Reciprocal and Other Agreements
                              The Ministry entered into agreements with the Federal Government to provide services on their behalf.
                              Expenses incurred and revenue earned in the provision of services under these agreements are recorded in the
                              records of the service providers and are not included in these consolidated financial statements.  Amounts paid and
                              recovered under agreements are disclosed in Note 14.
                              Net Assets/Net Liabilities
                              Net Assets/Net Liabilities represent the difference between the carrying value of assets held by the Ministry and its
                              liabilities.
                              Canadian public sector accounting standards require a “net debt” presentation for the Consolidated Statement of
                              Financial Position in the summary consolidated financial statements of governments.  Net debt presentation reports
                              the difference between financial assets and liabilities as “net debt” or “net financial assets” as an indicator of the
                              future revenues required to pay for past transactions and events.  The Ministry operates within the government
                              reporting entity and does not finance all its expenditures by independently raising revenues.  Accordingly, these
                              consolidated financial statements do not report a net debt indicator.
                              Endowments
                              Donations and government transfers that must be maintained in perpetuity are recognized as direct increases in
                              endowment net assets when received or receivable.  Realized gains and losses attributable to portfolio investments
                              that also must be maintained in perpetuity are also recognized as a direct increase in endowment net assets when
                              received or receivable.
                              Measurement Uncertainty                                                                                                                                                                                                           (in thousands)
                              Measurement uncertainty exists when there is a variance between the recognized or disclosed amount and another
                              reasonably possible amount.
                              The areas with measurement uncertainty are:

                              „   the allowance for impaired loans amounting to $98,488 (2013 - $75,567),

                              „   the allowance for loan subsidy amounting to $41,207 (2013 - $35,230) and

                              „   the allowance for repayment assistance amounting to $2,618 (2013 - $2,088).

---PDF PAGE 29---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                       Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                 25


                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)

                             The Ministry has made certain estimates in the following areas:
                             „   Recovery and default rates in the determination of the allowance for impaired loans.

                             „   Blended student lending rate; the annual average provincial borrowing rate; the average repayment period,
                                  default rate, and repayment assistance rate in the determination of the allowance for loan subsidy.

                             „   Future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates in the determination of the
                                  allowance for repayment assistance.

                             „   Methodology used in the determination of the amounts of expended restricted capital contributions.
                             With respect to the Universities Academic Pension Plan, the plan’s actuary has made certain estimates and
                             assumptions in the determination of the March 31, 2014 extrapolated results.  Refer to Note 10 for these
                             assumptions.
                             Changes in these estimates could materially impact the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy,
                             the allowance for repayment assistance and the unfunded liability for the Universities Academic Pension Plan.
                             Government Endowment Funds for Research and Scholarships                                                                                    (in thousands)
                             The Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund operates under the Alberta Research and
                             Innovation Act for the purpose of supporting science and engineering research.  The Alberta Heritage Scholarship
                             Fund operates under the Alberta Heritage Scholarship Act for the purpose of investing the endowment funds to make
                             income available for scholarships.
                             The Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance controls these endowments, however, the Ministry of Innovation and
                             Advanced Education has an economic interest in the endowments as they assist in funding Ministry programs.
                             Additional information on these endowments can be found in the financial statements for Treasury Board and
                             Finance.

                                                                                                                                Net Assets
                                                                                                                   2014                          2013
                                                                                                        Value at Cost    Fair Value   Value at Cost    Fair Value
                                                                                                                                       (Restated Note 3)(Restated Note 3)

                             Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund           $    795,981   $    912,173   $    739,740   $    826,309
                             Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund                                               798,061        907,059        737,375        819,731

                                                                                                        $  1,594,042   $  1,819,232   $  1,477,115   $  1,646,040

                      (c)    Future Accounting Changes
                              PS 3260 Liability for Contaminated Sites
                             In June 2010, the Public Sector Accounting Board issued this accounting standard effective for fiscal years starting on
                             or after April 1, 2014.  Contaminated sites are a result of contamination being introduced into air, soil, water, or
                             sediment of a chemical, organic, or radioactive material, or live organism that exceeds an environmental standard.
                             Innovation and Advanced Education would recognize a liability related to the remediation of such contaminated
                             sites subject to certain recognition criteria.  Management is currently assessing the impact of this change in
                             accounting standard on the financial statements.
                              PS 3450 Financial Instruments
                             In June 2011, the Public Sector Accounting Board issued the accounting standard and in January 2014, the Public
                             Sector Accounting Board extended the effective date to April 1, 2016 from April 1, 2015.  Adoption of this standard
                             requires corresponding adoption of: PS 2601, Foreign Currency Translation; PS 1201, Financial Statements
                             Presentation; and PS 3041, Portfolio Investments in the same fiscal period.  These standards provide guidance on:
                             recognition, measurement, and disclosure of financial instruments; standards on how to account for and report
                             transactions that are denominated in foreign currency; general reporting principles and standards for the disclosure
                             of information in financial statements; and how to account for and report portfolio investments.  Management is
                             currently assessing the impact of these standards on the financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 30---
26                                                                Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                           IAE Annual Report 2013-14

                 Note 3       Government Reorganization and Prior Period Restatement                                                                                    (in thousands)

                              On June 4, 2013, responsibility for Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions was transferred to the Ministry of Health.  On
                              October 2, 2013, responsibility for Northern Alberta Development Council was transferred to the Ministry of
                              Aboriginal Relations.  On December 13, 2013, as a result of cabinet restructuring, responsibility for Workforce
                              Strategies was transferred to the Ministry of Jobs, Skills, Training and Labour.  The ministry was renamed as the
                              Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education.  All changes were effective April 1, 2013.
                              Comparatives for 2013 have been restated as  if the Ministry had always been assigned with its current
                              responsibilities.  Net assets on March 31, 2012 are made up as follows:


                              Net Assets as previously reported by the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                      $10,365,181
                              Transfer to the Ministry of Aboriginal Relations                                                                     220
                              Transfer to the Ministry of Jobs, Skills, Training & Labour                                                          968
                              Transfer to the Ministry of Health                                                                               (24,373)
                              Reallocated to Endowments                                                                                     (1,490,109)

                              Net Assets at March 31, 2012                                                                                $  8,851,887


                 Note 4       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                              Cash and Cash Equivalents include deposits in the Consolidated Cash Investment Trust Fund (CCITF) of the Province
                              of Alberta.  The CCITF is managed with the objective of providing competitive interest income to depositors while
                              maintaining appropriate security and liquidity of depositors’ capital.  The portfolio is comprised of high quality,
                              short-term securities with a maximum term to maturity of three years.  As at March 31, 2014, securities held by the
                              Fund have an average effective yield of 2014 - 1.2% (2013 - 1.2%) per annum.  Due to the short-term nature of CCITF
                              investments, the carrying value approximates fair value.

                                                                 2014           2013
                                                                              (Restated Note 3)

                              Cash (1)                       $    500,686    $   337,360
                              Cash Equivalents (2)                625,820        802,046

                                                             $  1,126,506    $ 1,139,406

                              (1)   Cash includes deposits in CCITF.
                              (2)   Cash Equivalents include money market funds, short-term notes and Treasury bills.

                 Note 5       Accounts Receivable                                                                                                                       (in thousands)

                                                                                2014                           2013
                                                                              Allowance          Net            Net
                                                                 Gross       for Doubtful    Realizable      Realizable
                                                               Amount         Accounts          Value          Value
                                                                                                             (Restated Note 3)

                              Accounts Receivable            $    334,047    $     (7,699)  $    326,348    $   403,677

                              Accounts receivable are unsecured and non-interest bearing.

---PDF PAGE 31---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                      Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                 27


                Note 6       Loans and Advances                                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                                                                                            2014           2013

                             Loans Receivable                                            $ 1,264,943    $   974,055

                                Less:
                                Allowance for Impaired Loans                                 (98,488)       (75,567)
                                Allowance for Loan Subsidy                                   (41,207)       (35,230)
                                Allowance for Repayment Assistance                             (2,618)       (2,088)

                                                                                         $ 1,122,630    $   861,170

                             Under the Alberta Student Loan Program, loans are provided by the Ministry to qualifying students on terms
                             prescribed by the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education.
                             Loans become payable and interest is earned starting six months after students discontinue their studies or
                             graduate.  Loans are unsecured and are repayable to a maximum term of 114 months.  The interest rates on student
                             loans are a floating rate of prime or a fixed rate of prime plus 2%.
                             Loans are classified as impaired when:

                             „   there is no longer reasonable assurance as to the timely collection of the full amount of principal or interest, or

                             „   the borrower has failed to make payments for a period of 150 days, or

                             „   interest is owing to the Province for a period of 180 days.
                             When loans are classified as impaired, interest ceases to accrue.
                             Loans receivable are stated at cost net of the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy and the
                             allowance for repayment assistance.
                             The allowance for impaired loans is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be impaired.
                             The key assumptions used to determine this provision are default and recovery rates.
                             The allowance for loan subsidy is a provision that reflects the future benefit provided to students.  This benefit is a
                             result of favourable loan terms where the Ministry does not receive interest payments over the term of the loans to
                             fully cover the Ministry’s cost of financing the loan portfolio.  Changes in future year estimates are expensed and are
                             amortized over the estimated life of the student repayment period.  The key assumptions used to determine this
                             provision are a blended student lending rate; the annual average provincial borrowing rate; the average repayment
                             period, default rate assumptions, and Repayment Assistance Plan rate assumptions.
                             The allowance for repayment assistance is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be
                             forgiven by the Ministry through the repayment assistance program.  The key assumptions used to determine the
                             provision are future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates.
                             In 2013-14, changes to the assumptions for the allowance for loan subsidy were implemented to reflect changes to
                             the Student Aid program as well as borrowing and repayment patterns.  These changes affect the allowance and
                             provision for loan subsidy, amortization of the loan subsidy allowance and the net loans receivable balance.  There
                             were no impacts to the allowances for repayment assistance or impaired loans.  The changes were in the following
                             areas:

                             „   Blended student lending rate;

                                  „   New assumption uses a 12 year blended average annual prime interest rate for 3 future years, the current
                                      fiscal year and 8 historical years.  This is a change from using the annual average prime interest rate for the 3
                                      future years.

                                  „   These rates are susceptible to change due to changing interest rate forecasts and uncertainty involving future
                                      interest rates.

                             „   Repayment Assistance Plan stage 2 and permanent disability write off;

                                  „   New assumption is to include a government write off (loan forgiveness) rate in the loan subsidy calculation.
                                      The Repayment Assistance Plan was implemented in 2010 and now enough data exists to reasonably
                                      estimate the amount.  No government write off amount was included in the loan subsidy allowance in prior
                                      fiscal years.
                                  „   These rates are susceptible to change due to changing demand for the repayment assistance plan.

---PDF PAGE 32---
28                                                                     Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                 IAE Annual Report 2013-14


                    Note 6       Loans and Advances (continued)                                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                 „   Government borrowing delay in loan disbursement year;

                                      „   New assumption to prorate the government cost of borrowing in the year that a student loan is disbursed as
                                           the loan is not outstanding for the entire year.  Therefore the government does not have to borrow for the
                                           entire year.

                                      „   The government borrowing delay is susceptible to change due to changing loan disbursement patterns.
                                 All of these assumptions are subject to change when there are changes to demand for programs and interest rates.

  Note 7        Tangible Capital Assets                                                                                                                                             (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                      Computer
                                                                                                       Land                        Hardware and
                                                                      Land           Building     Improvement      Equipment (2)      Software         Other (3)       2014 Total      2013 Total
                                                                                                                                                                                       (Restated Note 3)

                Estimated Useful Life                                Indefinite      3-50 years     10-40 years       3-40 years      3-15 years       3-40 years

                Historical Cost (1)
                   Beginning of year (Restated)                   $    275,247     $ 8,754,521     $     44,040     $ 1,983,443      $   913,455     $    696,121    $12,666,827      $12,158,391
                   Additions                                             4,570         385,123             2,043          96,243           52,100          52,495         592,574          631,026
                   Donations                                               640           23,224               —           14,436              121            1,227          39,648          11,214
                   Disposals, including write-downs                          —          (22,225)             (18)        (36,103)         (23,285)        (10,536)         (92,167)       (133,699)
                   Adjustments (4)                                         320           11,673            1,755          (9,545)           1,229         (26,252)         (20,820)            (105)
                                                                       280,777       9,152,316           47,820       2,048,474          943,620          713,055      13,186,062       12,666,827

                Accumulated Amortization
                   Beginning of year (Restated)                              —       2,762,775           13,583       1,226,080          788,066          490,100       5,280,604        4,945,837
                   Amortization expense                                      —         217,272             1,203        152,152            45,893          38,528         455,048          447,681
                   Effect of disposals including                             —          (15,425)               (5)       (31,105)         (21,743)          (8,003)        (76,281)       (112,206)
                   write-downs
                   Adjustments (4)                                           —           (7,107)             295          (4,728)           1,165           (4,302)        (14,676)            (708)
                                                                             —       2,957,515           15,076       1,342,399          813,381          516,323       5,644,695        5,280,604

                Net Book Value at March 31, 2014                  $    280,777     $ 6,194,801     $     32,744     $   706,075      $   130,239     $    196,732    $  7,541,367

                Net Book Value at March 31, 2013                  $    275,247     $ 5,991,746     $     30,457     $   757,363      $   125,390     $    206,020                     $  7,386,223

                (1)   Historical cost includes work-in-progress at March 31, 2014 totalling $581,496 (2013 (restated) - $598,473) comprised of Building and Site Improvements –
                     $503,326 (2013 (restated) - $537,362), Equipment – $54,663 (2013 (restated) - 16,756), and Computer Hardware and Software – $22,330
                     (2013 (restated) - $44,105) and Other – $1,177 (2013 (restated) - $250).
                (2)   Equipment includes vehicles, heavy equipment, office equipment and furniture, other equipment.
                (3)   Other includes leasehold improvements, library materials and asset retirement obligations.
                (4)   Adjustments relates to post-secondary institutions for accounting policy aliignments and reclassifications between capital asset categories.

  Note 8        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                                                                                                            (in thousands)

                                                     2014             2013
                                                                   (Restated Note 3)

                Accounts Payable                 $     34,125     $     21,049
                Accrued Liabilities                   779,418          676,690

                                                 $    813,543     $    697,739

---PDF PAGE 33---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                                 Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                                  29


                   Note 9         Long Term Debt                                                                                                                                            (in thousands)

                                                                                                                           Average
                                                                                                 Maturity               Interest Rate     Cost 2014 (2)    Cost 2013 (2)

                                  Debentures (1)                                         Up to December 2047                   4.53%      $    858,880     $    688,491
                                  Bank Loan                                                     June 2018                      4.23%              1,660              331
                                  Mortgages                                                    March 2016                      5.13%                226            2,246
                                  Other (3)                                                                                                         215          13,577
                                                                                                                                               860,981          704,645

                                  Liabilities under Capital Leases (4)                                                                            5,749            7,287

                                                                                                                                          $    866,730     $    711,932

                                  (1)   Debentures are payable to Alberta Capital Finance Authority.
                                  (2)   Cost approximates fair value.
                                  (3)   Primarily includes asset retirement obligations.
                                  (4)   The calculation of the liabilities under capital leases are as follows:

                                                                                                 2014             2013

                                         Liabilities, beginning of the year                  $       7,287    $       5,517
                                         Additions to liabilities during the year                    2,747            6,474
                                         Principal payments                                         (4,285)          (4,704)

                                         Liabilities, end of year                            $       5,749    $       7,287

                                  Principal repayments in each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:


                                  2014-15          $      48,477
                                  2015-16                 48,345
                                  2016-17                 47,918
                                  2017-18                 47,299
                                  2018-19                 30,586
                                  Thereafter            644,105

                                                   $    866,730

---PDF PAGE 34---
30                                                              Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                        IAE Annual Report 2013-14


               Note 10        Employee Future Benefits                                                                                                             (in thousands)


                                                                              2014           2013
                                                                                           (Restated Note 3)
                              Pension Liability
                                 Universities Academic Pension Plan        $   223,597    $   198,831
                                 Supplementary Pension Plans                    47,084         52,524

                                                                           $   270,681    $   251,355
                              Universities Academic Pension Plan
                              The Universities Academic Pension Plan (UAPP) is a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan primarily
                              comprised of academic staff members and other eligible employees of the Universities of Alberta, Calgary,
                              Lethbridge, and Athabasca and Banff Centre (employers).  The Universities Academic Pension Plan Board (the Board)
                              is the trustee and administrator of the UAPP.  The Board operates under the authority of the Employment Pension
                              Plans Act.
                              An actuarial valuation of the UAPP was carried out as at December 31, 2012 and was extrapolated to March 31, 2014
                              using the projected unit cost method prorated on benefits.  The actuarial valuation was based on a number of
                              assumptions about future events, such as inflation rates, interest rates, wage and salary increases and employee
                              turnover and mortality.  The significant actuarial assumptions used to measure the accrued benefit obligation are as
                              follows:

                                                                                             2014           2013

                              Discount Rate                                                     6.60%          6.20%
                              Expected Rate of Return on Plan Asset                             6.60%          6.20%
                              Salary Escalation Rate (1)                                        3.50%          3.50%
                              Real Wage Growth                                                  1.25%          1.25%
                              Inflation Rate                                                    2.25%          2.25%
                              Estimated Average Remaining Service Life (years)                     8.6           10.2
                              (1)   Excludes merit and promotion rates.
                              The 2013 UAPP Annual Report identifies an unfunded liability at December 31, 2013 in the amount of $982,238
                              (2012 (restated) - $1,044,492).  An actuarial extrapolation of this amount to March 31, 2014, adjusted for public
                              sector reporting standards, estimates the unfunded liability at $1,056,921 (2013 - $1,149,175) and unamortized
                              actuarial losses totalling $140,542 (2013 - $230,707).  The following table provides further breakdown of how the
                              liability has been allocated amongst the participants:

                                                              Alberta
                                                             Treasury                                    March 31, 2014 March 31, 2013
                                                             Board and                                  Extrapolated   Extrapolated
                                                              Finance      Employees       Employers       Results        Results

                              Pre ‘92                       $   310,693    $   267,192    $   267,192    $   845,077    $   766,644
                              Post ‘91                               —         105,922        105,922        211,844        382,531

                              Total Unfunded Liability      $   310,693    $   373,114    $   373,114    $ 1,056,921    $ 1,149,175

                              The unfunded liability for service prior to January 1, 1992 is financed by additional contributions of 1.25%
                              (2012 - 1.25%) of salaries by Alberta Treasury Board and Finance and the balance of the required contributions,
                              2.87% (2013 - 2.34%) of salaries, is equally split between employees and employers in order to eliminate the
                              unfunded deficiency by December 31, 2043.  Employees and employers are responsible for fully funding service after
                              1991 which consists of special payments of 5.79% (2013 - 5.54%) of salaries until December 31, 2021.  1.71%
                              (2013 - 1.46%) of salaries for 2022 and 2023, 0.70% (2013 - 0.45%) of salaries for 2024 and 2025, and 0.25%
                              (2013 - 0.0%) of salaries for 2026 and 2027, all shared equally between employees and employers
                              The total contributions for the year (which includes the current year’s service) were $220,625 (2013 - $213,091) of
                              which the contributions made by employees were $104,363 (2013 - $101,092) and contributions made by Alberta
                              Treasury Board and Finance were $11,388 (2013 - $10,366).
                              Additional information on UAPP can be found in the Annual Report of UAPP.

---PDF PAGE 35---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                        Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                     31


                  Note 10     Employee Future Benefits (continued)                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                              The expense and financial position of the UAPP is as follows:

                                                                                                2014           2013

                              Pension Liability
                                 Accrued Benefit Obligation
                                    Balance at the beginning of the year                    $ 4,152,734    $  3,829,138
                                    Current Service Cost                                        155,904        138,301
                                    Interest Cost                                               260,769        251,553
                                    Benefits Paid                                              (205,390)       (194,803)
                                    Actuarial Loss                                              108,397        128,545
                                 Balance at the end of the year                               4,472,414       4,152,734

                                 Pension Fund Assets                                         (3,415,493)     (3,003,559)

                                 Total Unfunded Liability                                   $ 1,056,921    $  1,149,175

                                 Ministry’s Portion of the Total Unfunded Liability         $   373,114    $   410,732
                                 Unamortized Actuarial Net Loss                                (149,517)       (211,901)

                              Total UAPP Pension Liability                                  $   223,597    $   198,831

                              The expense recorded in these financial statements is $129,639 (2013 - $121,117) and includes the following
                              components:

                                                                                                               2014           2013

                              Pension Expense
                                    Current Period Benefit Cost                                            $     77,952    $    69,151
                                    Amortization of Actuarial Gains/Losses                                       24,639         23,522
                                 Pension Expense                                                               102,591          92,673
                                    Interest Cost on the Average Accrued Benefit Obligation                    110,363         105,456
                                    Expected Return on Average Pension Plan Assets                              (83,315)       (77,012)
                                 Pension Interest Expense                                                        27,048         28,444

                              Total UAPP Pension Expense                                                   $   129,639     $   121,117

                              Ministry Pension Plans
                              The Ministry participates in the multi-employer pension plans: Management Employees Pension Plan, Local
                              Authorities Pension Plan and Public Service Pension Plan.  The Ministry also participates in the multi-employer
                              Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers.  The expense for these pension plans is equivalent to
                              the annual contributions of $139,443 for the year ended March 31, 2014 (2013 (restated) - $124,711).
                              At December 31, 2013, the Management Employees Pension Plan reported a surplus of $50,457 (2012 - deficiency of
                              $303,423), the Local Authorities Pension Plan reported a deficiency of $4,861,516 (2012 - deficiency of $4,977,303)
                              and the Public Service Pension Plan reported a deficiency of $1,254,678 (2012 - deficiency of $1,645,141).  At
                              December 31, 2013, the Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers had a deficiency of $12,384
                              (2012 - deficiency of $51,870).
                              Certain consolidated entities provide defined supplementary executive retirement plans for certain management
                              staff, and other benefit plans for all or specific groups of staff, depending on the plans.  The cost of these benefits are
                              actuarially determined on an annual basis using the projected benefit method pro-rated on services, the
                              government borrowing rate and management’s best estimate of expected costs and the period of benefit coverage.
                              At March 31, 2014, these plans have net accrued liability of $47,084 (2013 (restated) - $52,524).  This liability is
                              included in employee future benefits.  The expense of these supplementary retirement plans is $7,697
                              (2013 (restated) - $7,576).
                              The Ministry also participates in two multi-employer Long Term Disability Income Continuance Plans.  At
                              March 31, 2014, the Bargaining Unit Plan reported an actuarial surplus of $75,200 (2013 - surplus of $51,717) and the
                              Management, Opted Out and Excluded Plan reported an actuarial surplus of $24,055 (2013 - surplus of $18,327).
                              The expense for these two plans is limited to the employer’s annual contributions for the year.

---PDF PAGE 36---
32                                                               Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                          IAE Annual Report 2013-14

               Note 11        Endowment Funds                                                                                                                         (in thousands)

                              Endowments consist of externally restricted donations received by the post-secondary institutions and internal
                              allocations by the post-secondary institutions’ Boards of Governors, the principal of which is required to be
                              maintained intact in perpetuity.  Donors have placed restrictions on their contributions to the endowment funds of
                              post-secondary institutions.  The principal restriction is that the original contribution not be spent except as
                              expressly allowed under the Post-secondary Learning Act for endowments made to post-secondary institutions.
                              Other potential restrictions are that any investment income of the endowment fund that is required to offset the
                              impact of inflation should also not be spent.

                                                                                               2014           2013

                              Beginning Balance                                            $ 1,542,818    $  1,490,109
                              Contributions                                                      46,798         53,513
                              Capitalization of Investment Earnings                              84,445          1,458
                              Net Transfers from Deferred Contributions                             964          4,235
                              Net Transfers from/(to) Unrestricted Net Assets                     1,194         (6,497)

                                                                                           $ 1,676,219    $  1,542,818


               Note 12        Contractual Obligations                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                              Contractual obligations are obligations of the Ministry to others that will become liabilities in the future when the
                              terms of those contracts or agreements are met.

                                                                                                              2014           2013

                                                                                                                          (Restated Note 3)
                              Obligations under Operating Leases, Contracts and Programs                  $  1,001,680    $   818,242
                              Loans and Advances Approved (1)                                                      368         11,135

                                                                                                          $  1,002,048    $   829,377

                              (1)   Loans and Advances Approved are comprised of uncashed student loans.
                              Estimated payment requirements for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:

                                                                2014
                                             Obligations
                                                under
                                              Operating
                                                Leases,      Loans and
                                            Contracts and     Advances
                                               Programs       Approved          Total

                              2014-15        $   617,943     $       368    $   618,311
                              2015-16            166,817              —         166,817
                              2016-17              83,195             —          83,195
                              2017-18              46,229             —          46,229
                              2018-19              18,755             —          18,755
                              Thereafter           68,741             —          68,741

                                             $  1,001,680    $       368    $ 1,002,048


                Note 13       Contingent Liabilities                                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                              At March 31, 2014, the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education was named as a defendant in 11 (2013 - 6)
                              specific legal actions.  The total claimed in 5 (2013 - 3) actions approximate $369 (2013 - $15).  For the other claims,
                              no specified amounts have yet been claimed; the amount of these claims will be determined at trial.  The resulting
                              loss, if any, from these claims cannot be determined.
                              The public post secondary institutions also entered into employment contracts that included a commitment to
                              provide or guarantee housing loans in the amount of $782 (2013 - $882).

---PDF PAGE 37---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                      Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                 33


               Note 14       Payments under Agreement                                                                                                            (in thousands)

                             The Ministry has entered into agreements to deliver programs that are fully funded by the Government of Canada.
                             Costs under these agreements are incurred by the Ministry under authority of section 25 of the Financial
                             Administration Act.  Accounts Receivable includes $15,889 (2013 - $64,436).
                             Government of Canada:
                             Net Amounts paid and (payable) under agreements on behalf of the Government of Canada are as follows:

                                                                                            2014           2013

                                                                                                        (Restated Note 3)
                             Canadian Millennium Scholarship Foundation
                                Canadian Millennium Scholarships                         $        (18)  $      (205)

                             Government of Canada
                                Canada Study Grants                                               (28)         (128)
                                Canada Access Grants                                              —              (10)
                                Canada Student Grants                                         72,415         73,614

                                                                                         $    72,369    $    73,271

                             P/T Secretariat
                             On December 13, 2013, responsibility for administrating the P/T Secretariat on behalf of the P/T Forum of
                             Immigration Ministers Secretariat has been transferred to the Department of Jobs, Skills, Training and Labour as a
                             result of the re-organization of government departments established by Order in Council 409/2013 under the
                             Government Organization Act.

               Note 15       Funds Held on Behalf of Others                                                                                                      (in thousands)

                             The Ministry holds funds on behalf of others over which they have no power of appropriation.  Because the Ministry
                             has no equity in the funds and holds them for the purposes of various other organizations, they are not included in
                             the Ministry’s financial statements.  Total net assets of the funds held on behalf of others by the Ministry at
                             March 31, 2014 were $27,456 (2013 - $26,532).


               Note 16       Derivative Contracts and Related Credit Risk                                                                                        (in thousands)

                             The Ministry uses derivative contracts to improve investment return and to manage interest and currency risks.
                             Derivative contracts have credit risks that could expose the Ministry to potential losses.  Credit risk for derivative
                             contracts is the risk that the counterparty will not pay its obligation when it comes due.
                             The following is a summary of the fair values and maturity schedules of the Ministry’s derivative contracts by type,
                             segregated contracts in a favourable and unfavourable position.  Derivatives in a favourable position have positive
                             fair values which represent amounts owed to the Ministry by counterparties.

                                                                                           Maturity                     Contract              Fair Values
                                                                             Under          1 to 3         Over         Notional      Favourable    Unfavourable
                                                                             1 Year         Years         3 Years        Amount         Position      Position

                             Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts                 100%              —              —     $   280,218    $     8,384    $    18,666
                             Interest Rate Swap Contracts                          —              —           100%             627             —              48

                             Total 2014                                                                                $   280,845    $     8,384    $    18,714

---PDF PAGE 38---
34                                                            Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                     IAE Annual Report 2013-14


               Note 17       Adjustment to Net Assets                                                                                                        (in thousands)
                             The adjustment is a result of:
                             „   Completion Incentive Grants that should have been recognized in the prior year.  The result is a decrease in net
                                 assets of $14,406 (2013 - $0).
                             „   Post-secondary institutions restating prior year amounts that were not restated in the ministry financial
                                 statements.  This resulted in an increase to net assets of $20,254 (2013 - decrease of $187,076).
                             „   The effect of elimination entries on net assets due to timing differences of revenue recognition by the
                                 Post-secondary Institutions.  This resulted in an increase to net assets of $60,166 (2013 - increase of $59,954).
                             „   A change in accounting policy $0 (2013 - decrease of $998,787).


               Note 18       Comparative Figures

                             Certain 2013 figures have been reclassified to conform to the 2014 presentation.

               Note 19       Approval of Consolidated Financial Statements

                             The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Deputy Minister and the Senior Financial Officer.

---PDF PAGE 39---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                          Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                        35
                               Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements

                               for the year ended March 31, 2014

            Schedule 1         Consolidated Revenues                                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                  2014            2013
                                                                                                                                               (Restated Note 3)
                               Government Transfers

                                  Government of Alberta Grants
                                      Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund                                                       $     37,361    $     37,570
                                      Access to the Future Fund                                                                     51,809          51,245
                                      Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund                              42,500          42,500
                                      Alberta Innovates Corporations                                                                   607           3,835
                                      Post-Secondary Institutions                                                                  236,431         245,264
                                                                                                                                   368,708         380,414

                                  Federal Grants
                                      Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                           302,360         259,519
                                      Other                                                                                          7,892           8,708
                                                                                                                                   310,252         268,227

                               Investment Income
                                  Interest on Student Loans Issued                                                                  14,216          11,072
                                  Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                               180,548         106,084
                                  Other                                                                                              2,352             556
                                                                                                                                   197,116         117,712

                               Premiums, Fees and Licences
                                  Apprenticeship Services                                                                            7,175           6,642
                                  Licence Fees                                                                                         146             140
                                  Other                                                                                                   8              16
                                                                                                                                     7,329           6,798

                               Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                                                    1,087,280       1,036,985

                               Sales, Rentals and Services                                                                         679,380         644,715

                               Donations, Grants and Contributions                                                                 364,021         375,197

                               Other Revenue
                                  Refunds of Expenditure                                                                            10,934           3,947
                                  Miscellaneous                                                                                      2,298           1,109
                                                                                                                                    13,232           5,056

                                                                                                                              $  3,027,318    $  2,835,104

---PDF PAGE 40---
36                                                                    Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                 IAE Annual Report 2013-14


            Schedule 2           Consolidated Expenses Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                                                                        (in thousands)

                                                                                                       2014            2013
                                                                                                                    (Restated Note 3)
                                 Salaries, Wages and Employee Benefits                             $ 3,343,992     $  3,237,088
                                 Supplies and Services                                               1,294,116        1,307,860
                                 Grants                                                                470,335          430,439
                                 Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 7)                      455,048          447,681
                                 Interest on Long-Term Debt                                              34,615          34,638
                                 Provisions for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                      35,367            3,530
                                 Other Expenses (1)                                                      41,011          23,323

                                                                                                   $ 5,674,484     $  5,484,559

                                 (1)   Other Expenses include pension provisions, valuation of vacation liability and provision for doubtful accounts.

             Schedule 3          Consolidated Budget Reconciliation                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                        2014
                                                                                                      2013-14 Government             Budget of
                                                                                                            Estimates                 Entities
                                                                                                                                  Excluded from Consolidation        Constructed
                                                                                                  Operational (1)    Capital (1)    Fiscal Plan (2) Adjustments         Budget

                                 Revenues
                                    Government Transfers
                                       Government of Alberta Grants                                $   130,757     $          —     $ 2,813,656      $(2,546,555)    $    397,858
                                       Federal Grants                                                     7,200               —         363,977                —          371,177
                                    Investment Income                                                    12,653               —         115,443                —          128,096
                                    Premiums, Fees and Licences                                           9,460               —               —            (2,300)          7,160
                                    Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                           —                —       1,069,434                —        1,069,434
                                    Sales, Rentals and Services                                              —                —         655,888                —          655,888
                                    Donations, Grants and Contributions                                      —                —         261,522                —          261,522
                                    Other Revenue                                                         5,869               —              583           (2,025)          4,427

                                 Total Revenues                                                        165,939                —       5,280,503       (2,550,880)       2,895,562

                                 Expenses
                                    Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                       —                —       5,119,433                —        5,119,433
                                    Alberta Innovates Corporations                                           —                —         234,636           (45,000)        189,636
                                    Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                        1,150               —               —                —            1,150
                                    Department
                                       Support for Adult Learning                                    2,147,959                —               —       (2,101,418)          46,541
                                       Apprenticeship Delivery                                           41,135               —               —            (2,300)         38,835
                                       Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                         11,000               —               —                —           11,000
                                       Innovation and Technology Commercialization                     184,253                —               —         (166,218)          18,035
                                       Student Aid                                                     200,854                —               —                —          200,854
                                       Enterprise                                                        16,325               —               —                —           16,325
                                       Ministry Support Services                                         38,072               —               —            (2,025)         36,047
                                       Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                         —           63,700               —           (63,700)              —

                                 Total Expenses                                                      2,640,748           63,700       5,354,069       (2,380,661)       5,677,856

                                 Net Operating Results                                             $(2,474,809)    $    (63,700)    $    (73,566)    $  (170,219)    $(2,782,294)

                                 (1)   Ministry’s estimate as per the 2013-14 Government Estimates.
                                 (2)   Budgets of SUCH Sector Entities and Alberta Innovates Corporations are not included in the Fiscal Plan but have been approved by their
                                      respective Boards of Directors.

---PDF PAGE 41---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                               Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                               37


             Schedule 4          Consolidated Allocated Costs                                                                                                                          (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                           2014                                               2013
                                                                                                                            Expenses – Incurred by Others                                 (Restated Note 3)

                                                                                                                     Accommodation         Legal           Other             Total            Total
                                                                                                     Expenses (1)        Costs (2)      Services (3)     Services (4)     Expenses         Expenses

                                 Program
                                     Public Post-Secondary Institutions                              $  5,134,586     $          —     $          —     $         —      $ 5,134,586      $ 4,999,033
                                     Alberta Innovates Corporations                                       151,767           20,288                —               —          172,055          161,569
                                     Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                         1,115                —                —               —             1,115            2,055
                                     Department
                                        Support for Adult Learning                                         69,334            1,165                91              —            70,590           77,502
                                        Apprenticeship Delivery                                            35,673            2,961              110               —            38,744           41,811
                                        Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                          18,932                —                —               —            18,932           17,318
                                        Innovation and Technology Commercialization                        18,655              749              185               —            19,589           19,463
                                        Student Aid                                                       188,556            1,451                41              —          190,048          135,017
                                        Enterprise                                                         16,738              844                27              —            17,609           18,226
                                        Ministry Support Services                                          38,077            1,618              348            4,043           44,086           42,257
                                        Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                         658                —                —               —               658               —
                                        2013 Alberta Flooding                                                 393                —                —               —               393               —

                                                                                                     $  5,674,484     $     29,076     $        802     $      4,043     $ 5,708,405      $ 5,514,251

                                 (1)   Expenses – Directly Incurred as per Consolidated Statement of Operations.
                                 (2)   Costs are as shown for Accommodation on Schedule 7 and allocated to participating entities and by proportion of full-time equivalent staff.
                                 (3)   Costs are as shown for Legal Services on Schedule 7 and allocated by estimated costs incurred by each program.
                                 (4)   Other Services costs, as shown on Schedule 7, include Shared Services, Air Transportation Services / Executive Vehicle, Internal Audit and GOA
                                      Learning Centre, and are allocated only to Ministry Support Services as the services relate to ministry support functions.

             Schedule 5          Consolidated Portfolio Investments                                                                                                                    (in thousands)

                                                                                                                 2014                              2013
                                                                                                    Value at Cost      Fair Value     Value at Cost      Fair Value

                                 Interest-Bearing Securities
                                     Deposits and Short-term Securities                              $  1,208,198     $ 1,206,573      $   780,127      $   780,397
                                     Bonds and Mortgages                                                  796,357         806,653        1,174,523        1,203,412
                                     Floating Rate Notes                                                   82,301         158,254            88,054         141,170
                                                                                                        2,086,856       2,171,480        2,042,704        2,124,979

                                 Equities
                                     Canadian Equities                                                    968,306       1,113,186          655,779          769,091
                                     Foreign Equities                                                     811,035       1,025,313          766,830          907,491
                                     Pooled Hedged Funds                                                   65,313           64,516           61,974           62,213
                                                                                                        1,844,654       2,203,015        1,484,583        1,738,795

                                 Inflation Sensitive and Alternative Investments
                                     Real Estate Funds                                                     53,434           66,100           52,586           57,015
                                     Other Investments                                                      9,598            9,575            5,907            5,407
                                                                                                           63,032           75,675           58,493           62,422

                                                                                                     $  3,994,542     $ 4,450,170      $ 3,585,780      $ 3,926,196

---PDF PAGE 42---
38                                                                      Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                  IAE Annual Report 2013-14


             Schedule 6          Consolidated Deferred Revenue                                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                                                            2014             2013
                                                                                                                                                                                         (Restated Note 3)

                                 Unearned Revenue (1)                                                                                                                   $   147,121      $   144,884
                                 Restricted Contributions (2)                                                                                                               841,489          792,937
                                 Restricted Capital Contributions (3)                                                                                                         59,525           46,546
                                 Expended Restricted Capital Contributions (4)                                                                                            1,284,673        1,252,131

                                                                                                                                                                        $ 2,332,808      $ 2,236,498


                         (1)     Unearned Revenue                                                                                                  2014                                      2013
                                                                                                                     Government       Government           Non-
                                                                                                                      of Alberta       of Canada       Government           Total            Total

                                 Balance, Beginning of Year                                                          $            3   $           5    $    144,876     $   144,884      $   145,021
                                 Prior Period Adjustment                                                                     2,185               80           (7,624)         (5,359)          (8,475)
                                 Received/Receivable during Year                                                             2,024            1,174         766,425         769,623          771,109
                                 Realized Investment Income                                                                     —                —                23               23              —
                                 Less Amounts Recognized as Revenue                                                         (3,684)            (855)       (757,511)        (762,050)       (762,771)

                                 Balance, End of Year                                                                $         528    $         404    $    146,189     $   147,121      $   144,884


                         (2)     Restricted Contributions                                                                                          2014                                      2013
                                                                                                                     Government       Government           Non-
                                                                                                                      of Alberta       of Canada       Government           Total            Total

                                 Balance, Beginning of Year                                                          $    146,032     $    305,648     $    341,257     $   792,937      $   803,121
                                 Prior Period Adjustment                                                                     3,362             (737)          (3,367)           (742)         (15,054)
                                 Received/Receivable during Year                                                          259,631          261,721          384,885         906,237          786,959
                                 Investment Earnings Received                                                                     7               6          37,630           37,643           30,809
                                 Less:
                                    Amounts Transferred to Grant/Donation Revenue                                        (217,850)        (229,209)        (344,337)        (791,396)       (694,853)
                                    Investment Earnings Transferred to Investment Income                                        —                —          (24,440)         (24,440)         (30,692)
                                 Transfers:
                                    To Endowments                                                                               —                —              (964)           (964)          (4,235)
                                    To Restricted Capital Contributions                                                        (15)            (134)          (4,687)         (4,836)            (993)
                                    To Expended Restricted Capital Contributions                                          (31,998)         (19,027)         (19,548)         (70,573)         (80,783)
                                    To Others                                                                                  (71)              —            (2,306)         (2,377)          (1,342)

                                 Balance, End of Year                                                                $    159,098     $    318,268     $    364,123     $   841,489      $   792,937


                         (3)     Restricted Capital Contributions                                                                                  2014                                      2013
                                                                                                                     Government       Government           Non-
                                                                                                                      of Alberta       of Canada       Government           Total            Total

                                 Balance, Beginning of Year                                                          $     22,617     $       8,878    $     15,051     $     46,546     $     88,030
                                 Prior Period Adjustment                                                                  (10,635)           (2,588)         44,248           31,025          (13,974)
                                 Received/Receivable during Year                                                           10,106           16,707           47,530           74,343           60,369
                                 Investment Earnings Received                                                                  141               —            2,162            2,303            2,042
                                 Less:
                                    Amounts Transferred to Grant/Donation Revenue                                              (27)             (50)          (5,245)         (5,322)          (2,089)
                                    Investment Earnings Transferred to Investment Income                                         (3)             —                —                (3)           (234)
                                 Transfers:
                                    From Restricted Contributions                                                               15              134           4,687            4,836              993
                                    To Expended Restricted Capital Contributions                                            (7,597)        (17,682)         (68,924)         (94,203)         (88,591)

                                 Balance, End of Year                                                                $     14,617     $       5,399    $     39,509     $     59,525     $     46,546

---PDF PAGE 43---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                               Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                                 39


                Schedule 6        Consolidated Deferred Revenue (continued)                                                                                                              (in thousands)


                         (4)      Expended Restricted Capital Contributions                                                                         2014                                       2013
                                                                                                                      Government       Government            Non-
                                                                                                                        of Alberta       of Canada      Government            Total            Total

                                 Balance, Beginning of Year                                                            $   185,415      $   486,968      $   579,749      $ 1,252,131      $   998,787
                                 Prior Period Adjustment                                                                     12,747          (29,763)         (44,974)         (61,990)        137,851
                                 Less:
                                     Amounts Recognized as Revenue                                                          (12,244)         (22,518)         (39,936)         (74,698)         (56,004)
                                     (Amortization of Expended Restricted Capital Contributions)
                                 Transfers:
                                     From Restricted Contributions                                                           31,998           19,027           19,548           70,573           80,783
                                     From Restricted Capital Contributions                                                    7,597           17,682           68,924           94,203           88,590
                                     (To)/From Others                                                                             —             (355)           4,808            4,453            2,124

                                 Balance, End of Year                                                                  $   225,513      $   471,041      $   588,119      $ 1,284,673      $ 1,252,131

---PDF PAGE 44---
40                                                               Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                           IAE Annual Report 2013-14


            Schedule 7        Consolidated Related Party Transactions                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                              Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Province of
                              Alberta’s financial statements.  Related parties also include management in the Ministry.
                              The Ministry and its employees paid or collected certain taxes and fees set by regulation for permits, licences and
                              other charges.  These amounts were incurred in the normal course of business, reflect charges applicable to all users,
                              and have been excluded from this schedule.
                              The Ministry had the following transactions with related parties which are recorded on the Consolidated Statement
                              of Operations and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at the amount of consideration agreed upon
                              between the related parties:

                                                                                2014           2013
                                                                                             (Restated Note 3)
                              Revenues
                                 Grants                                     $    292,607    $   338,443
                                 Other                                           202,318        137,802

                                                                            $    494,925    $   476,245

                              Expenses – Directly Incurred

                                 Grants                                     $     21,482    $      2,542
                                 Other Services                                   71,815         84,853

                                                                            $     93,297    $    87,395

                              Receivables from                              $     35,236    $    17,375

                              Payables to                                   $     11,863    $    32,967

                              Deferred Revenue                              $    399,756    $   343,859

                              Debt to Related Parties                       $    861,083    $   681,686

                              Contractual Obligations                       $      7,223    $      6,833

                              The Ministry also had the following transactions with related parties for which no consideration was exchanged.  The
                              amounts for these related party transactions are estimated based on the costs incurred by the service provider to
                              provide the service.  These amounts are not recorded in the financial statements.  Expenses incurred by others are
                              disclosed in Schedule 4.

                                                                                               2014            2013
                                                                                                            (Restated Note 3)
                              Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                 Accommodation                                              $    29,076    $     23,619
                                 Legal                                                              802             743
                                 Air Transportation Services / Executive Vehicle                      96            133
                                 Internal Audit                                                       48            280
                                 Shared Services                                                   3,862          5,331
                                 GOA Learning Centre                                                  37             47

                                                                                            $    33,921    $     30,153

---PDF PAGE 45---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                              Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                               41


             Schedule 8          Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements

                                 Department of Innovation and Advanced Education

                                 Funds and Agencies
                                    Access to the Future Fund
                                    Alberta Enterprise Corporation

                                 Public Post-Secondary Institutions

                                    Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                                        Athabasca University
                                        University of Alberta
                                        University of Calgary
                                        University of Lethbridge

                                    Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions
                                        MacEwan University
                                        Mount Royal University

                                    Polytechnical Institutions
                                        Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
                                        Southern Alberta Institute of Technology

                                    Comprehensive Community Institutions
                                        Bow Valley College
                                        Grande Prairie Regional College
                                        Keyano College
                                        Lakeland College
                                        Lethbridge College
                                        Medicine Hat College
                                        NorQuest College
                                        Northern Lakes College
                                        Olds College
                                        Portage College
                                        Red Deer College

                                    Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions
                                        Alberta College of Art + Design
                                        The Banff Centre

                                 Alberta Innovates Corporations
                                    Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions
                                    Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions
                                    Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures

---PDF PAGE 46---
42                                                     Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education                             IAE Annual Report 2013-14















                                                iae.alberta.ca/annualreports

---PDF PAGE 47---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                     Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                    43


                      Department of Innovation and Advanced Education
                      Financial Statements
                      March 31, 2014                                                                                Audited Information
                      Independent Auditor’s Report                                                                              44
                      Statement of Operations                                                                                   45
                      Statement of Financial Position                                                                           46
                      Statement of Cash Flows                                                                                   47
                      Notes to the Financial Statements                                                                         48
                      Schedules to the Financial Statements

                        1   Revenues                                                                                            56

                        2   Credit or Recovery                                                                                  57

                        3   Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                                     57

                        4   Budget Reconciliation                                                                               58

                        5   Lapse/Encumbrance                                                                                   59

                        6   Salary and Benefits Disclosure                                                                      61

                        7   Related Party Transactions                                                                          62

                        8   Allocated Costs                                                                                     63

                        9   Funding Provided to Post-Secondary Institutions and Research Entities                               64

---PDF PAGE 48---
44                                                          Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                     IAE Annual Report 2013-14








                           Independent Auditor’s Report


                           To the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education


                           Report on the Financial Statements
                           I have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Department of Innovation and Advanced Education,
                           which comprise the statement of financial position as at March 31, 2014, and the statements of operations and cash
                           flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
                           Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
                           Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
                           Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary
                           to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
                           error.
                           Auditor’s Responsibility
                           My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted my audit in
                           accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply with ethical
                           requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
                           are free from material misstatement.
                           An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
                           statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
                           material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments,
                           the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial
                           statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
                           expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also includes evaluating the
                           appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management,
                           as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
                           I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                           Opinion
                           In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Department
                           of Innovation and Advanced Education as at March 31, 2014, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the
                           year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.

                           original signed by

                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           June 9, 2014
                           Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 49---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                              Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                                  45
                                  Statement of Operations

                                  for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                                        (in thousands)
                                                                                                                                     2014                      2013
                                                                                                                        Constructed
                                                                                                                           Budget            Actual           Actual
                                                                                                                           (Schedule 4)                     (Restated Note 3)
                                  Revenues (Schedule 1)
                                     Government Transfers
                                         Government of Alberta Grants                                                   $      78,743     $     79,862     $     80,070
                                         Federal Grants                                                                         7,200            7,856             8,708
                                     Investment Income                                                                         11,100           14,216           11,073
                                     Premiums, Fees and Licences                                                                9,460            9,754             8,988
                                     Other Revenue                                                                              5,869           12,986             5,679
                                                                                                                             112,372          124,674           114,518

                                  Expenses – Directly Incurred (Note 2(b), 2(d) and Schedule 8)
                                     Program (Schedules 3 and 5)
                                         Ministry Support Services                                                             38,072           38,323           35,740
                                         Support for Adult Learning                                                        2,147,959        2,196,268         2,293,302
                                         Apprenticeship Delivery                                                               41,135           39,134           42,183
                                         Student Aid                                                                         200,854          188,556           133,843
                                         Innovation and Technology Commercialization (Note 2d)                               185,403          185,976           190,939
                                         Enterprise (Note 2d)                                                                  16,325           16,868           17,833
                                         2013 Alberta Flooding Non-Disaster Recovery Expenses (Note 2d)                            —               393                —
                                         Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                                         63,700           63,578           75,917
                                         Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                                             11,000           18,932           17,318
                                                                                                                           2,704,448        2,748,028         2,807,075

                                  Net Operating Results                                                                 $(2,592,076)      $(2,623,354)     $(2,692,557)

                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 50---
46                                                                     Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                    IAE Annual Report 2013-14
                                  Statement of Financial Position

                                  as at March 31, 2014                                                                                                                                    (in thousands)
                                                                                                           2014             2013
                                                                                                                         (Restated Note3)
                                  Assets
                                     Cash                                                             $       5,889     $     15,737
                                     Accounts Receivable (Note 4)                                           27,320            71,085
                                     Loans Receivable (Note 5)                                           1,122,630          861,170
                                     Tangible Capital Assets (Note 6)                                       27,151            26,163

                                                                                                      $  1,182,990      $   974,155

                                  Liabilities
                                     Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities (Note 7)                $     62,113      $     28,879
                                     Deferred Revenue (Note 8)                                                  851              689
                                                                                                            62,964            29,568

                                  Net Assets
                                     Net Assets at Beginning of Year                                       944,587          701,561
                                     Adjustment to Net Assets (Note 12)                                     (14,406)              —
                                     Net Operating Results                                              (2,623,354)      (2,692,557)
                                     Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                        2,813,199        2,935,583
                                     Net Assets at End of Year                                           1,120,026          944,587

                                                                                                      $  1,182,990      $   974,155

                                  Contractual Obligations (Note 9)
                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 51---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                              Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                                 47
                                  Statement of Cash Flows

                                  for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                                       (in thousands)
                                                                                                           2014             2013

                                                                                                                        (Restated Note 3)
                                  Operating Transactions
                                     Net Operating Results                                            $(2,623,354)     $(2,692,557)
                                     Non-Cash Items included in Net Operating Results
                                         Amortization                                                         5,272            5,016
                                         Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                  35,367             3,530
                                         Student Loan Valuation Adjustments                                 (18,144)          (9,373)
                                         Provision for Vacation Pay                                             554              680
                                         Deferred Revenue Recognized as Revenue                                (689)            (507)
                                         Write-off of Tangible Capital Assets                                    —                 59
                                                                                                        (2,600,994)      (2,693,152)
                                     Decrease in Accounts Receivable                                        43,765            37,553
                                     Increase in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                   18,274             1,761
                                     Deferred Revenue Received/Receivable                                       851              689
                                  Cash Applied to Operating Transactions                                (2,538,104)      (2,653,149)

                                  Capital Transactions
                                     Acquisition of Tangible Capital Assets                                  (6,260)          (6,558)
                                  Cash Applied to Capital Transactions                                       (6,260)          (6,558)

                                  Investing Transactions
                                     Loans Receivable
                                         Student Loan Disbursements                                       (376,965)        (336,418)
                                         Student Loan Repayments                                            98,282            75,223
                                  Cash Applied to Investing Transactions                                  (278,683)        (261,195)

                                  Financing Transactions
                                     Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                        2,813,199        2,935,583
                                  Cash Provided by Financing Transactions                                2,813,199        2,935,583

                                  (Decrease) Increase in Cash                                                (9,848)          14,681

                                  Cash at Beginning of Year                                                 15,737             1,056

                                  Cash at End of Year                                                 $       5,889    $      15,737

                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 52---
48                                                         Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                    IAE Annual Report 2013-14
                            Notes to the Financial Statements

                            March 31, 2014


                Note 1      Authority and Purpose

                            The Department of Innovation and Advanced Education operates under the authority of the Government
                            Organization Act, Chapter G-10, Revised Statutes of Alberta 2000.
                            In support of Alberta’s vision, Innovation and Advanced Education’s purpose is to build a resilient economy and a
                            thriving society by engaging Albertans in learning, innovation, and entrepreneurship.

                Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices

                            These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.
                     (a)    Reporting Entity
                            The reporting entity is the Department of Innovation and Advanced Education, which is part of the Ministry of
                            Innovation and Advanced Education and for which the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education is
                            accountable.  Other entities accountable to the Minister are the Access to the Future Fund, Alberta Enterprise
                            Corporation, Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions, Alberta Innovates – Energy & Environment Solutions, Alberta
                            Innovates – Technology Futures, and Public Post-Secondary Institutions.  The activities of these organizations are not
                            included in these financial statements.
                            The Ministry Annual Report provides a more comprehensive accounting of the financial position and results of the
                            Ministry’s operations for which the Minister is accountable.
                            All departments of the Government of Alberta operate within the General Revenue Fund (the Fund).  The Fund is
                            administered by the President of Treasury Board and Minister of Finance.  All cash receipts of departments are
                            deposited into the Fund and all cash disbursements made by departments are paid from the Fund.  Net Financing
                            provided from (for) General Revenues is the difference between all cash receipts and all cash disbursements made.
                     (b)    Basis of Financial Reporting
                            Revenues
                            All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services have not
                            been provided by year end is recorded as deferred revenue.
                            Government Transfers
                            Transfers from the Government of Alberta, federal and other governments are referred to as government transfers.
                            Government transfers are recorded as deferred revenue if the terms for use of the transfer, or the stipulations along
                            with the department’s actions and communications as to the use of the transfers, create a liability.
                            All other government transfers, without terms for the use of the transfer, are recorded as revenue when the
                            department is eligible to receive the funds.
                            Capital Contributions
                            Restricted capital contributions are recognized as deferred revenue when received and recognized as revenue over
                            the useful life of the acquired or constructed capital assets.
                            Credit or Recovery
                            Credit or Recovery initiatives provide a basis for authorizing spending.  Credits or Recoveries are shown in the details
                            of the Government Estimates for a supply vote.  If budgeted revenues are not fully realized, spending is reduced by
                            an equivalent amount.  If actual Credit or Recovery amounts exceed budget, the department may, with the approval
                            of the Treasury Board Committee, use the excess to fund additional expenses of the program.  Schedule 2 discloses
                            information on the department’s credit or recovery initiatives.
                            Expenses
                            Directly Incurred
                            Directly incurred expenses are those costs the department has primary responsibility and accountability for, as
                            reflected in the government’s budget documents.

---PDF PAGE 53---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                      Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                    49


                   Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                              In addition to program operating expenses such as salaries and supplies, etc., directly incurred expenses also
                              include:

                              „   amortization of tangible capital assets,

                              „   pension costs, which are the cost of employer contributions for current service of employees during the year, and

                              „   valuation adjustments which include changes in the valuation allowances used to reflect financial assets at their
                                   net recoverable or other appropriate value.  Valuation adjustments represent the change in management'’s
                                   estimate of future payments arising from obligations relating to student loans and employee vacation pay.
                              Grants are recognized as expenses when authorized and eligibility criteria, if any, are met.
                              Incurred by Others
                              Services contributed by other entities in support of the department operations are not recognized and are disclosed
                              in Schedule 7 and allocated to programs in Schedule 8.
                              Assets
                              Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                              for consumption in the normal course of operations.  Financial assets of the department are limited to cash and
                              financial claims, such as advances to and receivables from other organizations, employees, students and other
                              individuals.
                              Loans receivable are recorded at cost net of the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy and the
                              allowance for repayment assistance.
                              Assets acquired by right are not included.
                              Tangible capital assets of the department are recorded at historical cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over
                              the estimated useful lives of the assets.  The threshold for capitalizing new systems development is $250,000 and the
                              threshold for major systems enhancements is $100,000.  The threshold for all other tangible capital assets is $5,000.
                              Amortization is only charged if the tangible capital asset is in use.
                              Liabilities
                              Liabilities are recorded to the extent that they represent the present obligations as a result of events and
                              transactions occurring prior to the end of the fiscal year.  The settlement of liabilities will result in sacrifice of
                              economic benefits in the future.
                              Net Assets
                              Net assets represent the difference between the carrying value of assets held by the department and its liabilities.
                              Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards require a “net debt” presentation for the statement of financial
                              position in the summary financial statements of governments.  Net debt presentation reports the difference
                              between financial assets and liabilities as “net debt” or “net financial assets” as an indicator of the future revenues
                              required to pay for past transactions and events.  The department operates within the government reporting entity,
                              and does not finance all its expenditures by independently raising revenues.  Accordingly, these financial statements
                              do not report a net debt indicator.
                              Measurement Uncertainty                                                                                                                                                                                                             (in thousands)
                              Measurement uncertainty exists when there is variance between the recognized or disclosed amount and another
                              reasonably possible amount.
                              The areas subject to measurement uncertainty are:
                              „   the allowance for impaired loans amounting to $98,488 (2013 - $75,567),

                              „   the allowance for loan subsidy amounting to $41,207 (2013 - $35,230), and

                              „   the allowance for repayment assistance amounting to $2,618 (2013 - $2,088).
                              The department has made certain estimates in the following areas:
                              „   Recovery and default rates in the determination of the allowance for impaired loans.

                              „   Blended student lending rate; the annual average provincial borrowing rate; the average repayment period,
                                   default rate, and repayment assistance rate in the determination of the allowance for loan subsidy.

                              „   Future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates in the determination of the
                                   allowance for repayment assistance.
                              Changes in these estimates could materially impact the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy
                              and the allowance for repayment assistance.

---PDF PAGE 54---
50                                                              Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                           IAE Annual Report 2013-14


                   Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                              Valuation of Financial Assets and Liabilities
                              Fair value is the amount of consideration agreed upon in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable,
                              willing parties who are under no compulsion to act.
                              The fair values of Cash, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities are estimated to approximate
                              their carrying values because of the short-term nature of these instruments.
                              The fair values of Loans Receivable are not reported as there is no organized financial market for all of the
                              instruments and it is not practicable within constraints of timeliness or cost to estimate the fair values with sufficient
                              reliability.
                              Government Endowment Funds for Research and Scholarships                                                                                    (in thousands)
                              The Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund operates under the Alberta Research and
                              Innovation Act for the purpose of supporting science and engineering research.  The Alberta Heritage Scholarship
                              Fund operates under the Alberta Heritage Scholarship Act for the purpose of investing the endowment funds to make
                              income available for scholarships.
                              The Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance controls these endowments.  However, the Department of Innovation
                              and Advanced Education has an economic interest in the endowments as they assist in funding department
                              programs.  Additional information on these endowments can be found in the financial statements for Alberta
                              Treasury Board and Finance.

                                                                                                                                    Net Assets
                                                                                                                        2014                          2013
                                                                                                                                                   (Restated Note 3)
                                                                                                            Value at Cost    Fair Value    Value at Cost    Fair Value

                              Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund              $   795,981    $    912,173    $   739,740    $    826,309
                              Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund                                                 798,061         907,059        737,375         819,731

                                                                                                            $ 1,594,042    $  1,819,232    $ 1,477,115    $  1,646,040

                       (c)    Change in Accounting Policy
                              Effective April 1, 2013 the department changed its accounting treatment for the French Minority Language
                              Education and French Second Language Instruction Program.  In past years, the Department recorded funding for
                              this program under a payment based on agreement model.  Given the on-going nature of the funding, and advice
                              and approval from Alberta Treasury Board and Finance, this treatment has been changed to a Dedicated Revenue
                              initiative.
                      (d)     2013 Alberta Flooding                                                                                                                                                                                                             (in thousands)
                              The full recovery from the June 2013 flood in southern Alberta will take a number of years.  The Province’s flood
                              recovery initiatives, through its Disaster Recovery Program (DRP), provide financial assistance to impacted
                              individuals, small businesses, municipalities, and government departments for uninsurable loss and damage.  The
                               DRP is administered and funded by the Alberta Emergency Management Agency of the Department of Municipal
                              Affairs through the authority of the Disaster Recovery Regulation.
                              The Department of Municipal Affairs recognizes revenues from the federal government on an accrual basis based on
                              recoveries through the Disaster Financial Assistance Arrangement (DFAA) with the Government of Canada.  The
                              Government of Canada approved the DFAA through its Order in Council on July 3, 2013.  This arrangement has no
                              impact on the Department of Innovation and Advanced Education’s financial statements.
                              The Department of Municipal Affairs recognizes DRP expenses on an accrual basis when the Government of Alberta
                              issued its Order in Council on June 25, 2013.  These expenses are net of recoveries from insurance and other third
                              parties.
                              Also, the Province’s flood recovery initiatives include non-disaster recovery programs (non-DRP).  Costs associated
                              with non-disaster recovery programs are recognized as they are incurred.  These costs are net of recoveries from
                              insurance and other third parties.


                              Expenses – 2013 Alberta Flooding                                  2014            2013
                                  Non-Disaster Recovery Program Expenses (1)                $        977    $         —

                              (1)   2013 Alberta Flooding expenses total $977 (2013-$0).  $393 for Economic Renewal Initiatives and Small Business Rebuilding, $14 for
                                   Innovation and Technology Commercialization and $570 for Enterprise programs.

---PDF PAGE 55---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                    Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                 51


                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)

                      (e)    Future Accounting Changes
                             PS 3260 Liability for Contaminated Sites
                             In June 2010, the Public Sector Accounting Board issued this accounting standard effective for fiscal years starting on
                             or after April 1, 2014.  Contaminated sites are a result of contamination being introduced into air, soil, water, or
                             sediment of a chemical, organic, or radioactive material, or live organism that exceeds an environmental standard.
                             The department would recognize a liability related to the remediation of such contaminated sites subject to certain
                             recognition criteria.  Management does not expect the implementation of this standard to have a significant impact
                             on the financial statements.
                             PS 3450 Financial Instruments
                             In June 2011, the Public Sector Accounting Board issued this accounting standard and subsequently extended the
                             effective date to April 1, 2016 from April 1, 2015.
                             The department has not yet adopted this standard and has the option of adopting it in fiscal year 2016-17 or earlier.
                             Adoption of this standard requires corresponding adoption of: PS 2601, Foreign Currency Translation; PS 1201,
                             Financial Statement Presentation; and PS 3041, Portfolio Investments in the same fiscal period.  These standards
                             provide guidance on: recognition, measurement, and disclosure of financial instruments; standards on how to
                             account for and report transactions that are denominated in a foreign currency; general reporting principles and
                             standards for the disclosure of information in financial statements; and how to account for and report portfolio
                             investments.  Management is currently assessing the impact of these standards on the financial statements.

                 Note 3      Prior Period Restatement                                                                                                            (in thousands)
                             French Minority Language Education and French Second Language Instruction Program
                             In 2013-14, the federal government contributions under the French Minority Language Education and French
                             Second Language Instruction and the related payments to the post-secondary institutions that deliver this program
                             are accounted for as a credit or recovery.  In prior years, these payments were accounted for as a Payments under
                             Agreement model.  As a result of this change in accounting policy, which is being applied retroactively, revenues
                             increased by $4,300, which were offset by a corresponding increase in expenses.
                             Government Reorganization
                             On June 4, 2013, responsibility for Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions was transferred to the Ministry of Health.  On
                             October 2, 2013, responsibility for the Northern Alberta Development Council was transferred to the Ministry of
                             Aboriginal Relations.  On December 13, 2013, as a result of cabinet restructuring, responsibility for Workforce
                             Strategies was transferred to the Ministry of Jobs, Skills, Training and Labour.  The department was renamed as the
                             Department of Innovation and Advanced Education.  All changes were effective April 1, 2013.
                             Prior Period Restatement
                             Comparatives for 2013 have been restated as if the department had always been assigned with its current
                             responsibilities.
                             Net assets on March 31, 2012 are made up as follows:


                             Net assets as previously reported by the Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                $   700,373
                             Transfer to the Ministry of Aboriginal Relations                                                                 220
                             Transfer to Ministry of Jobs, Skills, Training and Labour                                                        968

                             Net assets at March 31, 2012                                                                            $   701,561


                 Note 4      Accounts Receivable                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                                                                              2014          2013
                                                                                         (Restated Note 3)

                             Government of Canada (1)                     $    23,230    $    67,477
                             Accrued Interest Receivable on Loans               2,636          1,742
                             Other                                              1,454          1,866

                                                                          $    27,320    $    71,085

                             Accounts receivable are unsecured and non-interest bearing.
                             (1)   $15,889 (2013 - $64,436) is represented by Payments Under Agreement (Note 10).

---PDF PAGE 56---
52                                                           Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                        IAE Annual Report 2013-14


                 Note 5      Loans Receivable                                                                                                                    (in thousands)
                                                                                            2014           2013

                             Loans Receivable                                            $ 1,264,943    $   974,055

                                Less:
                                Allowance for Impaired Loans                                 (98,488)       (75,567)
                                Allowance for Loan Subsidy                                   (41,207)       (35,230)
                                Allowance for Repayment Assistance                            (2,618)        (2,088)

                                                                                         $ 1,122,630    $   861,170

                             Under the Alberta Student Aid Program, loans are provided by the department to qualifying students on terms
                             prescribed by the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education.
                             Loans become payable and interest is earned starting six months after students discontinue their studies or
                             graduate.  Loans are unsecured and are repayable to a maximum term of 114 months.  The interest rates on student
                             loans are a floating rate of prime or a fixed rate of prime plus 2%.
                             Loans are classified as impaired when:

                             „   there is no longer reasonable assurance as to the timely collection of the full amount of principal or interest, or

                             „   the borrower has failed to make payments for a period of 150 days, or

                             „   interest is owing to the Province for a period of 180 days.
                             When loans are classified as impaired, interest ceases to accrue.
                             Loans receivable are stated at cost net of the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy and the
                             allowance for repayment assistance.
                             The allowance for impaired loans is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be impaired.
                             The key assumptions used to determine this provision are default and recovery rates.
                             The allowance for loan subsidy is a provision that reflects the future benefit provided to students.  This benefit is a
                             result of favorable loan terms where the department does not receive interest payments over the term of the loans
                             to fully cover the department’s cost of financing the loan portfolio.  Changes in future year estimates are expensed
                             and amortized over the estimated life of the student loan period.  The key assumptions used to determine this
                             provision are a blended student lending rate; the annual average provincial borrowing rate; the average repayment
                             period, default rate assumptions, and Repayment Assistance Plan rate assumptions.
                             The allowance for repayment assistance is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be
                             forgiven by the department through the repayment assistance program.  The key assumptions used to determine
                             this provision are the future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates.
                             In 2013-14 adjustments to the assumptions for the allowance for loan subsidy were implemented to reflect changes
                             to the Student Aid program as well as borrowing and repayment patterns.  These changes affect the allowance and
                             provision for loan subsidy, amortization of the loan subsidy allowance and the net loans receivable balance.  There
                             were no impacts to the allowances for repayment assistance or impaired loans.  The changes were in the following
                             areas:

                             „   Blended student lending rate;

                                  „   New assumption uses a 12 year blended average annual prime interest rate for 3 future years, the current
                                      fiscal year and 8 historical years.  This is a change from using the annual average prime interest rate for the 3
                                      future years.

                                  „   These rates are susceptible to change due to changing interest rate forecasts and uncertainty involving future
                                      interest rates.

                             „   Repayment Assistance Plan stage 2 and permanent disability write off;

                                  „   New assumption is to include a government write off (loan forgiveness) rate in the loan subsidy calculation.
                                      The Repayment Assistance Plan was implemented in 2010 and now enough data exists to reasonably
                                      estimate the amount.  No government write off amount was included in the loan subsidy allowance in prior
                                      fiscal years.
                                  „   These rates are susceptible to change due to changing demand for the repayment assistance plan.

---PDF PAGE 57---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                         Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                        53


                    Note 5     Loans Receivable (continued)                                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                               „              Government borrowing delay in loan disbursement year;

                                    „   New assumption to prorate the government cost of borrowing in the year that a student loan is disbursed as
                                         the loan is not outstanding for the entire year.  Therefore the government does not have to borrow for the
                                         entire year.

                                    „   The government borrowing delay is susceptible to change due to changing loan disbursement patterns.
                               All of these assumptions are subject to change when there are changes to demand for programs and interest rates.

                  Note 6       Tangible Capital Assets                                                                                                                       (in thousands)

                                                                                                                Computer
                                                                                                                Hardware
                                                                                              Equipment (1)   and Software         Total

                               Estimated Useful Life                                             5-10 years      3-10 years

                               Historical Cost (2)
                                   Beginning of year                                           $        259    $     55,369    $     55,628
                                   Additions                                                             —            6,260           6,260
                                   Disposals, including Write-downs                                      (80)        (2,561)         (2,641)
                                                                                                        179          59,068          59,247

                               Accumulated Amortization
                                   Beginning of year                                                    162          29,303          29,465
                                   Amortization expense                                                  24           5,248           5,272
                                   Effect of Disposals                                                   (80)        (2,561)         (2,641)
                                                                                                        106          31,990          32,096

                               Net Book Value at March 31, 2014                                $         73    $     27,078    $     27,151

                               Net Book Value at March 31, 2013                                $         97    $     26,066    $     26,163

                               (1)   Equipment includes office equipment.
                               (2)   Historical cost includes work-in-progress at March 31, 2014 totaling $10,725 (2013 - $9,346) comprised of computer software development
                                    projects.


                  Note 7        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                                   2014            2013
                                                                                                (Restated Note 3)
                               Accounts Payable                                $      4,6614,661$     4,8324,832
                               Accrued Liabilities:
                                   Vacation                                           7,4157,415      6,8716,871
                                   Grants                                            45,80545,805    14,07014,070
                                   Other                                              4,2324,232      2,7972,797
                               Advances from Government of Canada                        ——             309309

                                                                               $     62,11362,113$   28,87928,879


                  Note 8        Deferred Revenue                                                                                                                             (in thousands)

                                                                                   2014            2013

                               Balance, Beginning of Year                      $        689    $        507
                               Received/Receivable during Year                          851             689
                               Less Amounts Recognized as Revenue                      (689)           (507)

                               Balance, End of Year                            $        851    $        689

---PDF PAGE 58---
54                                                             Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                         IAE Annual Report 2013-14


                 Note 9       Contractual Obligations                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                              Contractual obligations are obligations of the department to others that will become liabilities in the future when
                              the terms of those contracts or agreements are met.

                                                                                               2014           2013

                                                                                                          (Restated Note 3)(1)
                              Obligations under Contracts and Programs                     $    83,552    $    84,840
                              Uncashed Student Loans                                               368         11,135
                              Capital Grants                                                   848,900              —

                                                                                           $   932,820    $    95,975

                              (1)   Figures have been restated to include contracts not reported in 2013.  This increased the total by 12,000.
                              Estimated payment requirements for each of the next five years are as follows:

                                            Contracts and    Uncashed         Capital
                                              Programs     Student Loans      Grants          Total

                              2014-15        $     59,010   $        368    $   167,225    $   226,603
                              2015-16              19,235             —         157,225        176,460
                              2016-17               2,672             —         162,225        164,897
                              2017-18               2,635             —         262,225        264,860
                              2018-19                  —              —         100,000        100,000

                                             $     83,552   $        368    $   848,900    $   932,820


               Note 10        Payments Under Agreement                                                                                                               (in thousands)

                              The department has entered into agreements to deliver programs that are fully funded by the Government of
                              Canada.  Costs under these agreements are incurred by the department under authority of section 25 of the
                              Financial Administration Act.  Accounts Receivable includes $15,889 (2013 - $64,436) relating to payments under
                              agreement.
                              Government of Canada
                              Net amounts paid and (payable) under agreements on behalf of the Government of Canada:

                                                                                               2014           2013

                                                                                                           (Restated Note 3)
                              Canadian Millennium Scholarship Foundation
                                 Canadian Millennium Scholarships                          $        (18)  $       (205)

                              Government of Canada
                                 Canada Study Grants                                                (28)          (128)
                                 Canada Access Grants                                               —              (10)
                                 Canada Student Grants                                          72,415         73,614

                                                                                           $    72,369    $    73,271

                              Provincial/Territorial (P/T) Forum of Immigration Ministers Secretariat
                              On December 13, 2013, responsibility for administrating the P/T Secretariat on behalf of the P/T Forum of
                              Immigration Ministers Secretariat has been transferred to the Department of Jobs, Skills, Training and Labour as a
                              result of the re-organization of government departments established by Order in Council 409/2013 under the
                              Government Organization Act.

---PDF PAGE 59---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                  Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                             55


               Note 11      Benefit Plans                                                                                                                   (in thousands)

                            The department participates in the following multi-employer pension plans: Management Employees Pension Plan,
                            Public Service Pension Plan and Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers.  The expense for these
                            pension plans is equivalent to the annual contributions of $9,320 for the year ended March 31, 2014
                            (2013 - $8,521 restated).  Departments are not responsible for future funding of the plan deficit other than through
                            contribution increases.
                            At December 31, 2013, the Management Employees Pension Plan reported a surplus of $50,457
                            (2012 - deficiency $303,423), the Public Service Pension Plan reported a deficiency of $1,254,678
                            (2012 - deficiency $1,645,141) and the Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers reported a
                            deficiency of $12,384 (2012 - deficiency $51,870).
                            The department also participates in two multi-employer Long-term Disability Income Continuance Plans.  At
                            March 31, 2014, the Bargaining Unit Plan reported an actuarial surplus of $75,200 (2013 - surplus $51,717) and the
                            Management, Opted Out and Excluded Plan an actuarial surplus of $24,055 (2013 - surplus $18,327).  The expense
                            for these two plans is limited to the employer’s annual contributions for the year.

              Note 12       Adjustment to Net Assets                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                            The adjustment is a result of Completion Incentive Grants that should have been recognized in the prior year.  The
                            result is a decrease in net assets of $14,406.

              Note 13       Comparative Figures

                            Certain 2013 figures have been reclassified to conform to the 2014 presentation.


               Note 14      Approval of Financial Statements

                            The financial statements were approved by the Senior Financial Officer and the Deputy Minister.

---PDF PAGE 60---
56                                                                  Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                  IAE Annual Report 2013-14
                                 Schedules to the Financial Statements


             Schedule 1          Revenues                                                                                                                                           (in thousands)

                                 Year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                       2014                    2013
                                                                                                                                    Constructed
                                                                                                                                      Budget (1)        Actual           Actual

                                                                                                                                                                      (Restated Note 3)
                                 Government Transfers
                                    Government of Alberta Transfers
                                       Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund                                                            $     36,243     $     37,362     $    37,570
                                       Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund                                    42,500          42,500          42,500
                                                                                                                                          78,743           79,862          80,070
                                    Federal Grants
                                       Government of Canada Transfers                                                                       7,200           7,856            8,708
                                                                                                                                            7,200           7,856            8,708

                                 Investment Income
                                    Interest on Student Loans Issued                                                                       11,100          14,216          11,073
                                                                                                                                          11,100           14,216          11,073

                                 Premiums, Fees and Licences
                                    Apprenticeship Services                                                                                 7,000           7,175            6,642
                                    Fees and Licences                                                                                       2,460           2,579            2,346
                                                                                                                                            9,460           9,754            8,988

                                 Other Revenue
                                    Refund of Expenditure                                                                                   3,200          10,888            3,923
                                    Other                                                                                                   2,669           2,098            1,756
                                                                                                                                            5,869          12,986            5,679

                                                                                                                                    $    112,372     $   124,674      $   114,518

                                 (1)   Budget numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the
                                      Government Organization Act, O.C. 316/2013 on October 2 and O.C. 409/2013 on December 13, 2013 and an accounting policy change to
                                      reflect federal government contributions under the French Minority Language Education and French Second Language Instruction as a
                                      credit/recovery and not a payment based on agreement.

---PDF PAGE 61---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                               Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                                     57


             Schedule 2            Credit or Recovery                                                                                                                                         (in thousands)
                                   Year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                    2014
                                                                                                                              Actual                         Actual Cash/
                                                                                                                            Revenue           Deferred         Donation        (Shortfall) /
                                                                                                         Authorized        Recognized         Revenue          Received           Excess

                                   Information and Technology Management Services (1)                    $      2,025     $       1,265     $          —     $       1,265     $        (760)
                                   Canada Student Loan Administration (2)                                        2,900            3,436                —             3,436               536
                                   Apprenticeship Services (3)                                                   8,000            7,175               851            8,026                26
                                   Regional Development (4)                                                        644              644                —               644                —
                                   French Language Program (5)                                                   4,300            4,300                —             4,300                —

                                                                                                         $     17,869     $      16,820     $         851    $      17,671     $        (198)

                                   The revenue of each credit or recovery is included in the department’s revenue.
                                   (1)   Revenue collected from the provision of certain information and technology management services to stakeholders on a cost-recovery basis.
                                        Element 1.4 – Schedule 5.
                                   (2)   Revenue received from the Government of Canada for administering of Canada Student Loans and conducting a study and developing
                                        material as prescribed by the federal government on a cost-recovery basis.  Element 4.1 – Schedule 5.
                                   (3)   Fees collected for the provision of registration and assessment services to individuals seeking certification in designated trades and
                                        occupations.  As well, consulting services are provided on a cost-recovery basis to other countries and jurisdictions.  Apprenticeship technical
                                        training spaces in Alberta institutions are provided on a cost-recovery basis to Yukon Territory, Northwest Territories and Nunavut.
                                        Element 3.2 – Schedule 5.
                                   (4)   Funding from the Rural Alberta Development Fund to enhance services provided to entrepreneurs and small centre businesses through Rural
                                        Alberta Business.  Element 6.4 – Schedule 5.
                                   (5)   Funding is received from the federal government to support French minority language and second language education programs provided
                                        by post-secondary institutions and fellowships for individuals in full-time studies in French.  Elements 2.2 and 4.2 – Schedule 5.

             Schedule 3            Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                                                                                            (in thousands)

                                   Year ended March 31, 2014                                                          2014                      2013
                                                                                                         Constructed
                                                                                                          Budget (1)          Actual           Actual
                                                                                                                                             (Restated Note 3)

                                   Salaries, Wages and Employee Benefits                                 $     80,638     $      76,626     $     72,548
                                   Supplies and Services                                                       62,477            61,031           58,988
                                   Grants                                                                  2,514,510         2,569,100         2,665,993
                                   Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets                                      5,000             5,272             5,016
                                   Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                           41,703            35,367             3,530
                                   Other                                                                           120              632             1,000

                                                                                                         $ 2,704,448      $  2,748,028      $  2,807,075

                                   (1)   Budget numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the
                                        Government Organization Act, O.C. 316/2013 on October 2 and O.C. 409/2013 on December 13, 2013 and an accounting policy change to
                                        reflect a federal government contributions under the French Minority Language Education and French Second Language as a credit/recovery
                                        and not a payment based on agreement.

---PDF PAGE 62---
58                                                                    Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                   IAE Annual Report 2013-14


             Schedule 4          Budget Reconciliation                                                                                                                                  (in thousands)
                                 Year ended March 31, 2014                                                            Adjustments
                                                                                                                     to Conform to       2013-14
                                                                                                       2013-14         Accounting      Constructed
                                                                                                       Estimate         Policy (2)        Budget

                                                                                                     (Restated Note 3)(1)
                                 Revenues
                                     Government Transfers
                                        Government of Alberta Grants                                 $     78,743     $          —     $     78,743
                                        Federal Grants                                                       7,200               —             7,200
                                     Investment Income                                                     11,100                —           11,100
                                     Premiums, Fees and Licences                                             9,460               —             9,460
                                     Other Revenue                                                           5,869               —             5,869
                                                                                                          112,372                —          112,372

                                 Expenses – Directly Incurred
                                     Programs
                                        Ministry Support Services                                          38,072                —           38,072
                                        Support for Adult Learning                                      2,147,959                —        2,147,959
                                        Apprenticeship Delivery                                            41,135                —           41,135
                                        Student Aid                                                       200,854                —          200,854
                                        Innovation and Technology Commercialization                       185,403                —          185,403
                                        Enterprise                                                         16,325                —           16,325
                                        Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                          11,000                —           11,000
                                        Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                           —           63,700           63,700
                                                                                                        2,640,748           63,700        2,704,448

                                 Net Operating Results                                               $(2,528,376)     $    (63,700)    $(2,592,076)

                                 Capital Spending                                                    $     68,347     $    (63,700)    $       4,647

                                 Financial Transactions                                              $    425,000     $          —     $    425,000

                                 (1)   Budget numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the
                                       Government Organization Act, O.C. 316/2013 on October 2 and O.C. 409/2013 on December 13, 2013 and an accounting policy change to
                                       reflect federal government contributions under the French Minority Language Education and French Second Language Instruction as a
                                       credit/recovery and not a payment based on agreement.
                                 (2)   Accounting Adjustments are in accordance with PS 1200.125 and include operating expenses such as capital grants included in Capital
                                       Spending.

---PDF PAGE 63---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                           Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                          59


Schedule 5       Lapse/Encumbrance                                                                                                                                              (in thousands)
                 Year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                          Adjusted
                                                                                                     Voted       Supplementary                        Voted           Voted         Unexpended
                                                                                                  Estimate (1)     Estimate (2)   Adjustments (3)   Estimate        Actuals (4)   (Overexpended)
                 Program - Operating
                  1  Ministry Support Services
                     1.1      Minister’s Office                                                   $        794    $         —     $         —     $        794    $        826     $        (32)
                     1.2      Deputy Minister’s Office                                                     700              —               —              700             699                1
                     1.3      Communications                                                             1,013              —               —            1,013             958               55
                     1.4      Strategic Corporate Services                                             31,166               —               —           31,166          30,227              939
                     1.5      Corporate Costs                                                            2,263              —               —            2,263            2,886            (623)
                     1.6      International Partnerships                                                 1,531              —               —            1,531            1,414             117
                                                                                                       37,467               —               —           37,467          37,010              457
                  2  Support for Adult Learning
                     2.1      Program Delivery Support                                                 13,554               —               —           13,554          12,573              981
                     2.2      Operating Support for Post-Secondary Institutions                     2,019,007           50,000              —        2,069,007       2,088,653          (19,646)
                     2.3      Academic Health Centres                                                  21,000               —               —           21,000          21,000               —
                     2.4      Campus Alberta Innovations                                               33,742               —               —           33,742          22,946          10,796
                     2.5      Inter-Jurisdiction Programs                                                8,905              —               —            8,905            8,728             177
                     2.6      Community Education                                                      21,941               —               —           21,941          18,839            3,102
                     2.7      Other Program Support                                                    29,810               —               —           29,810          22,890            6,920
                                                                                                    2,147,959           50,000              —        2,197,959       2,195,629            2,330
                  3  Apprenticeship Delivery
                     3.1      Apprenticeship Delivery Support                                          31,935               —               —           31,935          29,793            2,142
                     3.2      Apprenticeship Services                                                    7,000              —            1,000           8,000            7,150             850
                                                                                                       38,935               —            1,000          39,935          36,943            2,992
                  4  Student Aid
                     4.1      Program Delivery Support                                                 25,858               —               —           25,858          25,694              164
                     4.2      Scholarships                                                             35,400               —               —           35,400          35,534             (134)
                     4.3      Grants and Bursaries                                                     59,450               —               —           59,450          52,916            6,534
                                                                                                      120,708               —               —          120,708         114,144            6,564
                  5  Innovation and Technology Commercialization
                     5.1      Program Delivery Support                                                 10,389               —               —           10,389          10,153              236
                     5.2      Research Capacity                                                        26,833               —               —           26,833          29,357           (2,524)
                     5.3      Strategic Partnerships                                                   10,497               —               —           10,497          11,951           (1,454)
                     5.4      Commercialization Capacity                                                 4,383              —               —            4,383            1,250           3,133
                     5.5      Transfer to Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                 1,150              —               —            1,150            1,050             100
                     5.6      Grants to Alberta Innovates Corporations                                132,151               —               —          132,151         132,215              (64)
                                                                                                      185,403               —               —          185,403         185,976             (573)
                  6  Enterprise
                     6.1      Program Development and Support                                            3,286              —               —            3,286            2,829             457
                     6.2      Alberta Economic Development Authority                                       661              —               —              661             615               46
                     6.3      Industry Development                                                       7,065              —               —            7,065            7,142             (77)
                     6.4      Regional Development                                                       5,313              —               —            5,313            6,282            (969)
                                                                                                       16,325               —               —           16,325          16,868             (543)
                  7  2013 Alberta Flooding Non-Disaster Recovery Expenses
                     7.1      Economic Renewal Initiative                                                   —              275              —              275             275               —
                     7.2      Small Business Rebuilding                                                     —            3,000              —            3,000             118            2,882
                                                                                                            —            3,275              —            3,275             393            2,882
                 Credit or Recovery (Shortfall) (Schedule 2)                                                —               —             (198)           (198)              —             (198)

                 Total                                                                            $ 2,546,797     $     53,275    $        802    $  2,600,874    $  2,586,963     $    13,911

                 Lapse/(Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                               $    13,911

---PDF PAGE 64---
60                                                                     Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                    IAE Annual Report 2013-14


Schedule 5        Lapse/Encumbrance (continued)                                                                                                                                          (in thousands)
                 Year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                                 Adjusted
                                                                                                          Voted        Supplementary                         Voted            Voted          Unexpended
                                                                                                       Estimate (1)      Estimate (2)   Adjustments (3)     Estimate        Actuals (4)    (Overexpended)

                 Program - Capital

                   1   Ministry Support Services
                       1.4     Strategic Corporate Services                                            $      1,217     $     (1,000)    $         —      $        217     $        163     $          54

                   2   Support for Adult Learning
                       2.7     Other Program Support                                                             —             2,220               —             2,220            2,125                95

                   3   Apprenticeship Delivery
                       3.1     Program Delivery Support                                                         430            1,110               —             1,540            1,711             (171)

                   4   Student Aid
                       4.1     Program Delivery Support                                                       3,000             (650)              —             2,350            2,260                90

                   8   Post-Secondary Infrastructure
                       8.1     Capital Expansion and Upgrading                                               15,000               —                —            15,000           15,012               (12)
                       8.2     Capital Maintenance and Renewal                                               48,700               —                —            48,700           48,567              133
                       Sub-total                                                                             63,700               —                —            63,700           63,579              121

                   Total                                                                               $     68,347     $      1,680     $         —      $     70,027     $     69,838     $        189

                   Lapse/(Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                                      $        189

                 Financial Transactions

                   4   Student Aid
                       4.5     Student Loan Disbursements                                              $   425,000      $         —      $         —      $   425,000      $   384,425      $     40,575

                   Total                                                                               $   425,000      $         —      $         —      $   425,000      $   384,425      $     40,575

                   Lapse/(Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                                      $     40,575

                (1)   Budget numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the Government
                     Organization Act, O.C. 316/2013 on October 2 and O.C. 409/2013 on December 13, 2013 and an accounting policy change to reflect federal government
                     contributions under the French Minority Language Education and French Second Language Instruction as a credit/recovery and not a payment based on
                     agreement.
                (2)   Supplementary Estimates were approved on March 13, 2014.
                (3)   A budget adjustment was made as follows:
                          —     $1,000 increase in expense offset by a corresponding increase in dedicated revenue pursuant to the Financial Administration Act section 24(2).
                (4)   Actuals exclude non-voted amounts such as amortization and valuation adjustments.

---PDF PAGE 65---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                                Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                                       61


             Schedule 6            Salary and Benefits Disclosure                                                                                                                                (in thousands)
                                   Year ended March 31, 2014                                                                             2014                                         2013
                                                                                                                                                  Other
                                                                                                                             Other Cash        Non-Cash
                                                                                                         Base Salary (1)     Benefits (2)      Benefits (3)         Total             Total
                                                                                                                                                                                   (Restated Note 3)

                                   Deputy Minister (4) (5)                                                $         281     $            2    $          85     $         368     $         368

                                   Executives:
                                       Advanced Learning and Community Partnerships                                 193                  2               57               252               244
                                       Apprenticeship and Student Aid (6)                                           116                 14               31               161               228
                                       Innovation and Advanced Technologies (7)                                     193                 13               57               263               263
                                       International Partnerships (8)                                               164                  2               46               212                56
                                       Enterprise (9)                                                               186                  9               54               249               231
                                       Senior Financial Officer                                                     139                  2               38               179               164
                                       Human Resources Executive Director                                           156                  2               44               202               192
                                       Chief Information Officer,                                                   158                  2               45               205               201
                                       Information and Technology Management

                                   (1)      Base Salary includes regular base pay.
                                   (2)      Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and lump sum payments.  There were no bonuses or severance paid in 2014.
                                   (3)      Other non-cash benefits include government’s share of all employee benefits and contributions or payments made on behalf of employees
                                          including pension and supplementary retirement plan, health care, health spending account, dental coverage, group life insurance, short
                                          and long term disability plans and professional memberships.
                                   (4)      Automobile provided, no dollar amount included in other non-cash benefits.
                                   (5)      The position was occupied by two individuals at different times during the year in 2014.
                                   (6)      This position was vacant from November 16, 2013.
                                   (7)      This position was responsible for the former Innovation and Technology Commercialization division and also became responsible for the
                                          former Research and Innovation division when the two divisions merged effective April 1, 2013.
                                   (8)      This position was occupied beginning January 2013.
                                   (9)      This position was renamed from Economic Competiveness to Enterprise in 2014.  Other cash benefits include $2 for management special
                                          services compensation relating to the 2013 Alberta flood.

---PDF PAGE 66---
62                                                              Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                          IAE Annual Report 2013-14


            Schedule 7        Related Party Transactions                                                                                                               (in thousands)
                              Year ended March 31, 2014
                              Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Government of
                              Alberta’s financial statements.
                              The Department and its employees paid or collected certain taxes and fees set by regulation for permits, licences
                              and other charges.  These amounts were incurred in the normal course of business, reflect charges applicable to all
                              users, and have been excluded from this schedule.
                              The Department had the following transactions with related parties which are recorded on the Statement of
                              Operations and the Statement of Financial Position at the amount of consideration agreed upon between the related
                              parties:

                                                                                                                  Other Entities
                                                                               Entities in the Ministry        Outside the Ministry
                                                                                 2014           2013            2014           2013
                                                                                             (Restated Note 3)              (Restated Note 3)
                              Revenues
                                  Grants                                     $         —    $         —     $    79,862    $     80,070
                                  Other                                             2,783          2,337             —               —

                                                                             $      2,783   $      2,337    $    79,862    $     80,070

                              Expenses – Directly Incurred
                                  Grants                                     $ 2,357,248    $  2,462,500    $     1,720    $      1,498
                                  Other Services                                    3,752          2,910          5,862           5,782

                                                                             $ 2,361,000    $  2,465,410    $     7,582    $      7,280

                              Receivables from                               $       341    $        354    $        —     $         —

                              Payables to                                    $    26,735    $      8,236    $     1,000    $        500

                              Contractual Obligations                        $   899,116    $     49,034    $        —     $         —

                              The Department also had the following transactions with related parties for which no consideration was exchanged.
                              The amounts for these related party transactions are estimated based on the costs incurred by the service provider
                              to provide the service.  These amounts are not recorded in the financial statements.  Expenses incurred by others are
                              disclosed in Schedule 8.

                                                                                 2014           2013

                                                                                             (Restated Note 3)
                              Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                  Accommodation                              $      8,788   $      6,458
                                  Legal                                              802             743
                                  Shared Services                                   3,862          5,331
                                  Air Transportation Services                          96            133
                                  Internal Audit                                       48            280
                                  GOA Learning Centre                                  37             47

                                                                             $    13,633    $     12,992

---PDF PAGE 67---
IAE Annual Report 2013-14                                              Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                                                   63


             Schedule 8           Allocated Costs                                                                                                                                          (in thousands)
                                  Year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                   2014                                                2013
                                                                                                                               Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                                                                                                        Accommodation         Legal            Other            Total             Total
                                                                                                       Expenses (1)         Costs (2)      Services (3)     Services (4)      Expenses         Expenses

                                                                                                                                                                                              (Restated Note 3)
                                  Program
                                      Ministry Support Services                                        $     38,323      $      1,618     $        348     $       4,043    $     44,332      $     42,449
                                      Support for Adult Learning                                          2,196,268             1,165                91               —        2,197,524        2,294,209
                                      Apprenticeship Delivery                                                39,134             2,961              110                —           42,205            44,472
                                      Student Aid                                                           188,556             1,451                41               —          190,048          135,017
                                      Innovation and Technology Commercialization                           185,976               749              185                —          186,910          191,767
                                      Enterprise                                                             16,868               844                27               —           17,739            18,457
                                      2013 Alberta Flooding Non-Disaster Recovery                                393               —                 —                —               393                —
                                      Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                          63,578                —                 —                —           63,578            75,917
                                      Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                              18,932                —                 —                —           18,932            17,318

                                                                                                       $  2,748,028      $      8,788     $        802     $       4,043    $  2,761,661      $ 2,819,606

                                  (1)   Expenses – Directly Incurred as per Statement of Operations.
                                  (2)   Costs shown for Accommodations are allocated based on proportion of full-time-equivalent staff.
                                  (3)   Costs shown for Legal Services are allocated by estimated costs incurred by each program.
                                  (4)   Other Services costs include Shared Services, Air Transportation Services / Executive Vehicle, Internal Audit and GOA Learning Centre and are
                                       allocated only to Ministry Support Services as the services relate to ministry support functions.

---PDF PAGE 68---
64                                                                  Department of Innovation and Advanced Education                                                 IAE Annual Report 2013-14


            Schedule 9           Funding Provided to Post-Secondary Institutions and Research Entities                                                                             (in thousands)
                                 Year ended March 31, 2014                                                                              Operating Grants (1)          Grants for Infrastructure
                                                                                                                                        2014            2013             2014            2013
                                                                                                                                                     (Restated Note 3)
                                 Post-Secondary Institutions

                                    Comprehensive Academic and                    Athabasca University                              $     39,758    $     41,433     $      1,700    $       3,024
                                    Research Institutions                         University of Alberta                                 608,755          640,142           17,405          25,612

                                                                                  University of Calgary                                 441,598          470,664            9,937          15,907
                                                                                  University of Lethbridge                                97,608         102,240            1,782            1,823

                                    Baccalaureate and Applied Studies             MacEwan University                                    105,449          107,568            1,330            3,464
                                    Institutions                                  Mount Royal University                                  88,283          88,895            1,150            3,280

                                    Polytechnical Institutions                    Northern Alberta Institute of Technology              177,293          177,820           12,766            4,778
                                                                                  Southern Alberta Institute of Technology              152,177          158,485            2,717            2,644

                                    Comprehensive Community                       Bow Valley College                                      38,729          39,858              151              437
                                    Institutions                                  Grande Prairie Regional College                         45,990          46,334            1,322            1,963

                                                                                  Keyano College                                          38,006          41,821            1,005            1,491
                                                                                  Lakeland College                                        34,632          35,582              773            1,532
                                                                                  Lethbridge College                                      45,018          45,984              683              854
                                                                                  Medicine Hat College                                    31,961          32,906              598            1,215
                                                                                  NorQuest College                                        44,710          44,392            5,377              765
                                                                                  Northern Lakes College                                  32,520          31,602              411              857
                                                                                  Olds College                                            29,829          29,826              672            1,680
                                                                                  Portage College                                         22,843          23,571              993              716
                                                                                  Red Deer College                                        50,605          52,062              899            1,381

                                    Specialized Arts and Culture                  Alberta College of Art + Design                         12,311          12,599              356              274
                                    Institutions                                  The Banff Centre                                        16,489          16,444              893            1,499

                                    Total Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                          2,154,564        2,240,228           62,920          75,196

                                    Independent Academic Institutions             Ambrose University College                               2,648            2,588              —                —
                                                                                  Canadian University College                              3,035            2,930              —                —
                                                                                  Concordia University College of Alberta                 12,011          11,815               —                —
                                                                                  St. Mary’s University College                            3,097            2,921              —                —
                                                                                  The King’s University College                            4,466            4,363              —                —

                                    Private Vocational Schools                    Columbia College                                            93               94              —                —

                                    Other Colleges                                Yellowhead Tribal College                                  823              449              —                —
                                                                                  Blue Quills First Nations College                          361              150              —                —
                                                                                  Maskwachees Cultural College                               420              474              —                —
                                                                                  Mikai Sto Foundation                                        84              243              —                —
                                                                                  Red Crow Community College                                 272               —               —                —
                                                                                  Old Sun Community College                                  264              592              —                —

                                 Total Funding Provided to Institutions                                                               2,182,138        2,266,847           62,920          75,196

                                 Research Entities                                Alberta Innovates – Energy and                          21,375          22,193               —                —
                                                                                  Environment Solutions
                                                                                  Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions                       20,118          20,236               —                —
                                                                                  Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures                  97,222         102,501               —                —

                                 Total Funding Provided to Research Entities                                                            138,715          144,930               —                —

                                 Total Funding Provided to Post-Secondary Institutions and Research Entities                        $ 2,320,853     $  2,411,777     $     62,920    $     75,196

                                 (1)   Includes funding to these entities from all department programs.

---PDF PAGE 69---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                             Access to the Future Fund                                                  65


                      Access to the Future Fund
                      Financial Statements
                      March 31, 2014                                                                                  Audited Information
                      Independent Auditor’s Report                                                                                66
                      Statement of Operations                                                                                     67
                      Statement of Financial Position                                                                             67
                      Statement of Cash Flows                                                                                     67
                      Notes to the Financial Statements                                                                           68

---PDF PAGE 70---
66                                                                       Access to the Future Fund                                            IAE Annual Report 2013-2014








                           Independent Auditor’s Report


                           To the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education


                           Report on the Financial Statements
                           I have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Access to the Future Fund, which comprise the
                           statement of financial position as at March 31, 2014, and the statements of operations and cash flows for the year
                           then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
                           Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
                           Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
                           Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary
                           to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
                           error.
                           Auditor’s Responsibility
                           My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted my audit in
                           accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply with ethical
                           requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
                           are free from material misstatement.
                           An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
                           statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
                           material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments,
                           the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial
                           statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
                           expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also includes evaluating the
                           appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management,
                           as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
                           I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                           Opinion
                           In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Access to
                           the Future Fund as at March 31, 2014, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended in
                           accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.

                           original signed by

                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           June 9, 2014
                           Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 71---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                                   Access to the Future Fund                                                                               67
                               Statement of Operations

                               for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                          (in thousands)
                                                                                         2014                    2013
                                                                                Budget          Actuals         Actuals

                               Revenues
                                  Government Transfers
                                     Government of Alberta Grants             $    52,014     $    51,809    $     51,245
                                  Investment Income                                  1,553          1,413             819

                                                                                   53,567          53,222          52,064

                               Expenses (Note 1)                                        —              —               —

                               Net Operating Results                          $    53,567     $    53,222    $     52,064

                               The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.
                               Statement of Financial Position

                               as at March 31, 2014                                                                                                                       (in thousands)
                                                                                 2014            2013

                               Assets
                                  Cash (Note 4)                               $   170,894     $   117,672

                                                                              $   170,894     $   117,672

                               Net Assets
                                  Net Assets at Beginning of Year                 117,672          65,608
                                  Net Operating Results                            53,222          52,064
                                  Net Assets at End of Year                       170,894         117,672

                                                                              $   170,894     $   117,672

                               The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.
                               Statement of Cash Flows
                               for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                          (in thousands)
                                                                                                 2014            2013

                               Operating Transactions
                                  Net Operating Results                                       $    53,222    $     52,064
                                  Cash Generated from Operating Transactions                       53,222          52,064

                               Increase in Cash                                                    53,222          52,064

                               Cash, Beginning of Year                                            117,672          65,608

                               Cash, End of Year                                              $   170,894    $   117,672

                               The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 72---
68                                                                      Access to the Future Fund                                           IAE Annual Report 2013-2014
                            Notes to the Financial Statements

                            March 31, 2014


                Note 1      Authority and Purpose

                            The Access to the Future Fund (the Fund) operates under the authority of the Access to the Future Act.
                            Generally, the purpose of the Fund is to support innovation and excellence by enhancing and expanding
                            opportunities for Albertans to participate in accessible, affordable and high-quality advanced education
                            opportunities.  The Fund provides matching payments to stimulate donations for post-secondary institutions and
                            apprenticeship scholarships.  In Budgets 2011, 2012, and 2013, payments from the Fund were suspended for
                            2011-12 to 2013-14.

                Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices

                            These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.
                     (a)    Reporting Entity
                            The reporting entity is the Access to the Future Fund, which is part of the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced
                            Education and for which the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education is accountable.  Other entities
                            accountable to the Minister are the Department of Innovation and Advanced Education, Alberta Enterprise
                            Corporation, Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions, Alberta Innovates – Energy & Environment Solutions, Alberta
                            Innovates – Technology Futures, and the Public Post-Secondary Institutions.  The activities of these organizations are
                            not included in these financial statements.
                            The Ministry Annual Report provides a more comprehensive accounting of the financial positions and results of the
                            Ministry’s operations for which the Minister is accountable.
                     (b)    Basis of Financial Reporting
                            Revenues
                            All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services have not
                            been provided by year-end is recorded as deferred revenue.
                            Government Transfers
                            Transfers from the Government of Alberta, federal and other governments are referred to as government transfers.
                            Government transfers and the associated externally restricted investment income are recorded as deferred revenue
                            if the terms for use of the transfer, or the terms along with the Fund’s actions and communications as to the use of
                            the transfer, create a liability.  These transfers are recognized as revenue as the terms are met and, when applicable,
                            the Fund complies with its communicated use of the transfer.
                            All other government transfers, without terms for the use of the transfer, are recorded as revenue when the Fund is
                            eligible to receive the funds.
                            Expenses
                            Grants are recognized as expenses when authorized and eligibility criteria, if any, are met.
                            Assets
                            Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                            for consumption in the normal course of operations.  Financial assets of the Fund are limited to cash transferred or
                            interest receivable from the General Revenue Fund of the Province of Alberta (General Revenue Fund).
                            Liabilities
                            Liabilities are recorded to the extent that they represent present obligations as a result of events and transactions
                            occurring prior to the end of the fiscal year.  The settlement of liabilities will result in sacrifice of economic benefits in
                            the future.

---PDF PAGE 73---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                              Access to the Future Fund                                                                         69


                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                             Net Assets / Net Liabilities
                             Net Assets/Net Liabilities represent the difference between the carrying value of assets held by the Fund and its
                             liabilities.
                             Canadian public sector accounting standards require a “net debt” presentation for the statement of financial position
                             in the summary financial statements of governments.  Net debt presentation reports the difference between
                             financial assets and liabilities as “net debt” or “net financial assets” as an indicator of the future revenues required to
                             pay for past transactions and events.  The Fund operates within the government reporting entity, and does not
                             finance all its expenditures by independently raising revenues. Accordingly, these financial statements do not report
                             a net debt indicator.
                     (c)     Future Accounting Changes
                             PS 3450 Financial Instruments
                             In June 2011, the Public Sector Accounting Board issued this accounting standard and subsequently extended the
                             effective date to April 1, 2016 from April 1, 2015.  The Fund has not yet adopted this standard and has the option of
                             adopting it in fiscal year 2016-17 or earlier.  Adoption of this standard requires corresponding adoption of: PS 2601,
                             Foreign Currency Translation; PS 1201, Financial Statement Presentation; and PS 3041, Portfolio Investments in the
                             same fiscal period.  These standards provide guidance on: recognition, measurement, and disclosure of financial
                             instruments; standards on how to account for and report transactions that are denominated in a foreign currency;
                             general reporting principles and standards for the disclosure of information in financial statements; and how to
                             account for and report portfolio investments.  Management is currently assessing the impact of these standards on
                             the financial statements.

                Note 3       Advanced Education Endowment                                                                                                      (in thousands)

                             The Advanced Education Endowment (the Endowment) is an account within the Alberta Heritage Savings Trust Fund
                             that was established by the Access to the Future Act.  As per section 4(7) of the Access to the Future Act, an amount
                             equal to 4.5% of the total amount allocated to the Endowment shall be paid annually from the General Revenue
                             Fund to the Fund.
                             The Endowment is inflation-proofed in accordance with section 4(6) of the Access to the Future Act and section 11 of
                             the Alberta Heritage Savings Trust Fund Act.  The amount of funding allocated to the Endowment for inflation
                             proofing is an estimate and the actual amount may not be known until after the finalization of the Alberta Heritage
                             Savings Trust Fund financial statements.  There was no change to the 2013 estimate.

                                                              2014          2013

                             Opening balance              $ 1,151,315    $ 1,138,788
                             Inflation proofing                14,967         12,527

                             Closing balance              $ 1,166,282    $ 1,151,315


                Note 4       Cash

                             The Consolidated Cash Investment Trust Fund is managed with the objective of providing competitive interest
                             income to depositors while maintaining appropriate security and liquidity of depositors’ capital.  The portfolio is
                             comprised of high-quality short-term and mid-term fixed-income securities with a maximum term-to-maturity of
                             three years.  As at March 31, 2014, securities held by the Fund have a time-weighted rate of return of 1.2% per
                             annum (2013 - 1.3% per annum).

                Note 5       Related Party Transactions                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                             Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Province of
                             Alberta’s financial statements.  Related parties also include the Department of Innovation and Advanced Education.
                             The Fund received a government transfer of $51,809 (2013 - $51,245) from the Department of Treasury Board and
                             Finance.  The amount of consideration was agreed upon between the related parties.

---PDF PAGE 74---
70                                                                     Access to the Future Fund                                           IAE Annual Report 2013-2014


                Note 6      Subsequent Event                                                                                                              (in thousands)

                            In Budget 2014 payments from the Fund will resume in 2014-15 with $50,000 provided for operating support.  An
                            additional $10,000 for capital purposes has also been approved for 2014-15.  The budget received royal assent on
                            April 24, 2014.

                Note 7      Approval of Financial Statements

                            The financial statements were approved by the Senior Financial Officer and the Deputy Minister.

---PDF PAGE 75---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                           Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                               71


                      Alberta Enterprise Corporation
                      Financial Statements
                      March 31, 2014                                                                                  Audited Information
                      Independent Auditor’s Report                                                                                72
                      Statement of Financial Position                                                                             73
                      Statement of Operations                                                                                     73
                      Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses                                                                 74
                      Statement of Cash Flows                                                                                     74
                      Notes to the Financial Statements                                                                           75
                      Schedules to the Financial Statements

                        1    Expenses Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                                        81

                        2    Salary and Benefits Disclosure                                                                       81

                        3    Related Party Transactions                                                                           82

---PDF PAGE 76---
72                                                                     Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                          IAE Annual Report 2013-2014








                           Independent Auditor’s Report


                           To the Board of Directors of Alberta Enterprise Corporation


                           Report on the Financial Statements
                           I have audited the accompanying financial statements of Alberta Enterprise Corporation, which comprise the
                           statement of financial position as at March 31, 2014, and the statements of operations, remeasurement gains and
                           losses, and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other
                           explanatory information.
                           Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
                           Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
                           Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary
                           to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
                           error.
                           Auditor’s Responsibility
                           My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted my audit in
                           accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply with ethical
                           requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
                           are free from material misstatement.
                           An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
                           statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
                           material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments,
                           the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial
                           statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
                           expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also includes evaluating the
                           appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management,
                           as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
                           I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                           Opinion
                           In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Alberta
                           Enterprise Corporation as at March 31, 2014, and the results of its operations, its remeasurement gains and losses, and
                           its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.

                           original signed by

                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           May 26, 2014
                           Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 77---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                                  Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                             73
                               Statement of Financial Position

                               as at March 31, 2014                                                                                                                         (in thousands)
                                                                                                   2014           2013

                               Assets
                                  Cash (Note 3)                                                $    48,429     $    62,926
                                  Accounts Receivable                                                   327              —
                                  Investments (Note 4)                                              50,772          35,699

                                                                                               $    99,528     $    98,625

                               Liabilities
                                  Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                     $        243    $        160
                                                                                                        243             160

                               Net Assets
                                  Accumulated Surplus                                               94,591          95,481
                                  Accumulated Remeasurement Gains                                     4,694           2,984
                                                                                                    99,285          98,465

                                                                                               $    99,528     $    98,625

                               Contractual Obligations (Note 5)
                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

                               Approved by the Board of Directors
                               original signed by                                         original signed by
                               Paul G. Haggis                                             Barry Heck
                               Chairman of the Board                                      Vice Chairman of the Board
                               Statement of Operations

                               for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                            (in thousands)
                                                                                           2014                   2013
                                                                                 Budget          Actuals         Actuals

                               Revenues
                                  Grant from Government of Alberta             $      1,150    $      1,050    $      2,150
                                  Other Revenue                                          —                8              27
                                                                                      1,150           1,058           2,177

                               Expenses - Directly Incurred (Note 2b, Schedule 1)
                                  Operating Costs                                     1,150           1,144           2,081
                                                                                      1,150           1,144           2,081

                               Annual Operating (Deficit) Surplus                        —              (86)             96

                               Realized Loss on Investments (Note 4)                     —             (804)         (1,832)

                               Net Loss                                        $         —             (890)         (1,736)

                               Accumulated Surplus, Beginning of Year                               95,481          97,217

                               Accumulated Surplus, End of Year                                $    94,591     $    95,481

                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 78---
74                                                                           Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                IAE Annual Report 2013-2014
                               Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses

                               for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                             (in thousands)
                                                                                                                   2014            2013

                               Unrealized Gains Attributed to:
                                   Investments                                                                 $        515    $        184
                                   Foreign Exchange                                                                   1,195             134

                               Net Remeasurement Gains for the Year                                                   1,710             318

                               Accumulated Remeasurement Gains at Beginning of Year                                   2,984           2,666

                               Accumulated Remeasurement Gains at End of Year                                  $      4,694    $      2,984

                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.
                               Statement of Cash Flows
                               for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                             (in thousands)
                                                                                                                   2014            2013

                               Operating Transactions
                                   Annual Operating (Deficit) Surplus                                          $         (86)  $         96
                                   Decrease (Increase) in Accounts Receivable                                          (327)             34
                                   Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                       83            (204)
                                   Cash Applied to Operating Transactions                                              (330)            (74)

                               Investing Transactions
                                   Purchase of Investments                                                           (15,005)       (27,333)
                                   Proceeds on Sale of Investments                                                       838             —
                                   Cash Applied to Investing Transactions                                           (14,167)        (27,333)

                               Decrease in Cash                                                                     (14,497)        (27,407)

                               Cash, Beginning of Year                                                               62,926          90,333

                               Cash, End of Year                                                               $     48,429    $     62,926

                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 79---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                          Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                  75
                            Notes to the Financial Statements

                            March 31, 2014


                Note 1      Authority and Purpose

                            The Alberta Enterprise Corporation (the Corporation) is a Provincial Corporation that operates under the authority of
                            the Alberta Enterprise Corporation Act.
                            The Alberta Enterprise Corporation was established on December 5, 2008 and is part of a strategy to encourage
                            technology commercialization and promote growth in Alberta’s venture capital industry.
                            The Corporation is exempt from Canadian federal and Alberta provincial income taxes.

                Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices                                                             (in thousands)

                            These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.
                    (a)     Reporting Entity
                            The reporting entity is the Corporation, which is part of the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education and for
                            which the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education is accountable.  Other entities accountable to the Minister
                            are the Department of Innovation and Advanced Education, Access to the Future Fund, Alberta Innovates – Bio
                            Solutions, Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solution, Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures, and the
                            Public Post-Secondary Institutions.  The activities of these organizations are not included in these financial
                            statements.
                            The Ministry Annual Report provides a more comprehensive accounting of the financial positions and results of the
                            Ministry’s operations for which the Minister is accountable.
                    (b)     Basis of Financial Reporting
                            Revenues
                            All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services have not
                            been provided by year end is recorded as deferred revenue.
                            Government Transfers
                            Transfers from the Government of Alberta are referred to as government transfers.
                            Government transfers and the associated externally restricted investment income are recorded as deferred revenue
                            if the terms for use of the transfer, or the terms along with the Corporation’s actions and communications as to the
                            use of the transfer, create a liability.  These transfers are recognized as revenue as the terms are met and, when
                            applicable, the Corporation complies with its communicated use of the transfer.
                            All other government transfers, without terms for the use of the transfer, are recorded as revenue when the
                            Corporation is eligible to receive the funds.
                            Expenses
                            Directly Incurred
                            Directly incurred expenses are those costs the Corporation has primary responsibility and accountability for, as
                            reflected in the government’s budget documents.  Expenses are recorded on an accrual basis.
                            Assets
                            Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                            for consumption in the normal course of operations.
                            Cash and Accounts Receivable are the financial assets of the Corporation. The Corporation does not take out loans or
                            issue equity.
                     (c)    Financial Instruments
                            Accounting Standard for Investments
                            The Corporation records investments using Public Sector Accounting Board (PSAB) Standard PS 3450 – Financial
                            Instruments and PS 2601 – Foreign Currency Translation.

---PDF PAGE 80---
76                                                                     Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                           IAE Annual Report 2013-2014


                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)                                                     (in thousands)
                             The Corporation records investments in limited partnerships on a fair value basis.  Fair value is determined by the
                             Limited Partnerships based upon valuation techniques considered appropriate by the Corporation and may include
                             techniques such as discounted cash flows, prevailing market values for instruments with similar characteristics and
                             other pricing models as appropriate.  The Corporation relies upon the audited financial statements of the limited
                             partnerships when valuing the Corporation’s investments.
                             Liabilities
                             Liabilities are recorded to the extent that they represent present obligations as a result of events and transactions
                             occurring prior to the end of the fiscal year.  The settlement of liabilities will result in sacrifice of economic benefits in
                             the future.
                             Net Assets
                             Net assets represent the difference between the carrying value of assets held by the Corporation and its liabilities.
                             Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards require a “net debt” presentation for the statement of financial
                             position in the summary financial statements of governments.  Net debt presentation reports the difference
                             between financial assets and liabilities as “net debt” or “net financial assets” as an indicator of the future revenues
                             required to pay for past transactions and events.  The Corporation operates within the government reporting entity,
                             and does not finance any of its expenditures by independently raising revenues.  Accordingly, these financial
                             statements do not report a net debt indicator.
                             Measurement Uncertainty
                             Measurement uncertainty exists when there is a variance between the recognized or disclosed amount and another
                             reasonably possible amount. Investments recorded at  $50,772 in the financial statements are subject to
                             measurement uncertainty.
                             Measurement uncertainty exists with the determination of the fair value of the investments. The fair value of the
                             investments are estimated by the General Partner of each fund. The process of valuing investments for which no
                             published market exists is inevitably based on inherent uncertainties and the resulting values may differ from value
                             that would have been used had a ready market existed for the investments.
                             Valuation of Financial Assets and Liabilities

                             Financial Statement Component               Measurement
                             Cash                                        Fair Value
                             Accounts Receivable                         Amortized Cost
                             Investments                                 Fair Value
                             Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities    Amortized Cost
                             Fair value is the amount of consideration agreed upon in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable,
                             willing parties who are under no compulsion to act.
                             The fair values of Cash, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities are estimated to approximate
                             their carrying values, because of the short term nature of these instruments.
                     (d)     Foreign Currency Translation
                             Financial assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are translated to Canadian dollars at the year-end
                             exchange rate.
                             Revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year.  Unrealized gains and losses due to
                             foreign currency fluctuations are recorded in the Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses.
                     (e)     Future Accounting Changes
                             PS 3260 Liability for Contaminated Sites
                             In June 2010, the Public Sector Accounting Board issued this accounting standard effective for fiscal years starting on
                             or after April 1, 2014.  Contaminated sites are a result of contamination being introduced into air, soil, water, or
                             sediment of a chemical, organic, or radioactive material, or live organism that exceeds an environmental standard.
                             The Corporation would recognize a liability related to the remediation of such contaminated sites subject to certain
                             recognition criteria.  Management does not expect the implementation of this standard to have a significant impact
                             on the financial statements in the next fiscal period.
                      (f)    Budget
                             A business plan with no budgeted surplus or deficit was approved by the Board on November 14, 2013 and the full
                             financial plan was submitted to the Minister of Innovation and Advanced Education.

---PDF PAGE 81---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                                Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                            77


                  Note 3       Cash                                                                                                                                    (in thousands)

                               Cash in the amount of $48,429 (2013 - $ 62,926) includes deposits in the Consolidated Cash Investment Trust Fund
                               (CCITF).  The CCITF is managed with the objective of providing competitive interest income to depositors while
                               maintaining appropriate security and liquidity of depositors’ capital.
                               The portfolio is comprised of high-quality short-term and mid-term fixed-income securities with a maximum
                               term-to-maturity of three years.  As at March 31, 2014, securities held by the Corporation had a time weighted return
                               of 1.2% per annum (2013 - 1.2% per annum).  Due to the short term nature of the CCITF investments, the carrying
                               value approximates fair value.  Interest earned is returned directly to the General Revenue Fund of the Government
                               of Alberta.
                               As at March 31, 2014, the Corporation has $48,429 (2013 - 62,926) in Cash, of which $41,977 (2013 - $53,384) has
                               been committed for partnership capital contributions.

                 Note 4        Investments                                                                                                                             (in thousands)

                               The Government of Alberta has allocated $100,000 to the Corporation for investments in Limited Partnerships that
                               provide venture capital in knowledge-based industries.
                               The Corporation is a Limited Partner in eight (2013 - eight) Limited Partnerships and $ 94,220 (2013 - $90,599) has
                               been committed to these Limited Partnerships.  Committed funds are paid into the Limited Partnership in amounts
                               and at times determined by the General Partner in order to meet the Limited Partnership’s funding requirements.
                               The Corporation’s disbursements to date and commitments are as follows:

                                Chrysalix                                      Enertech                      32 Degrees
                                Energy III      Yaletown         iNovia         Capital     Azure Capital    D.E. Fund II       Avrio        Accelerate
                                 Fund (a)      Ventures II      Fund III     Partners IV (a)Partners III (a)(S&T AIV) LP     Ventures II       Fund         2014 Total      2013 Total

Funds disbursed to
partnership for:
   Investments (b)             $      9,133   $      9,918    $      3,486    $     3,580    $      5,097    $      7,284   $      3,745    $    10,000    $     52,243    $     37,215

Remaining Commitment                  7,450          4,082           6,514         13,003           5,957           2,716          2,255              —          41,977          53,384

Total Funding Committed        $    16,583    $     14,000    $    10,000     $    16,583    $     11,054    $    10,000    $      6,000    $    10,000    $     94,220    $     90,599

                               (a)   Commitments are payable in US dollars.  Amounts above are based upon exchange rate on March 31, 2014.
                               (b)   Investments include management fees which are part of the Corporation’s capital investment in the Limited Partnerships.
                               The Corporation’s investments in Limited Partnerships are recorded on a fair value basis and include unrealized gains
                               or losses, which are reflected in the Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses.  The Corporation’s share in each
                               Limited Partnership includes contributions to the Limited Partnerships for investments.  It also includes a share of
                               gains or losses of the Limited Partnerships as set out in the individual Limited Partnership agreements.
                               The Corporation’s investment in Limited Partnerships is as follows:

                                                                                         2014                           2013
                                                                               Share of     Percentage in      Share of    Percentage in
                                                                                Equity       Partnership        Equity      Partnership

                               Chrysalix Energy III Fund                      $     8,635         10.32%     $      7,845        10.32%
                               Yaletown Ventures II                                 8,625         15.58%            5,716        15.58%
                               iNovia Fund III                                      4,014          9.04%            2,247         9.14%
                               Enertech Capital Partners IV                         3,215         12.66%            2,346        28.53%
                               Azure Capital Partners III                           5,264         12.42%            2,403        12.42%
                               32 Degrees D.E. Fund II (S&T AIV) LP                 7,936         99.99%            3,733        99.99%
                               Avrio Ventures II                                    3,791          6.56%            1,581         6.56%
                               Accelerate Fund                                      9,292         99.99%            9,828        99.99%

                               Total                                          $    50,772                    $    35,699

---PDF PAGE 82---
78                                                                         Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                               IAE Annual Report 2013-2014


                   Note 4      Investments (continued)                                                                                                                  (in thousands)
                               The change in fair values of the investments in Limited Partnerships since April 1, 2013 are as follows:

                                Chrysalix                                      Enertech                      32 Degrees
                                Energy III      Yaletown         iNovia         Capital     Azure Capital    D.E. Fund II       Avrio        Accelerate
                                  Fund        Ventures II (b)  Fund III (b)   Partners IV     Partners III  (S&T AIV) LP     Ventures II        Fund         2014 Total     2013 Total

Investment in Partnership,     $      7,845   $      5,716    $      2,247    $     2,346    $      2,403    $      3,733   $      1,581    $      9,828    $    35,699    $      9,880
Beginning of Year
Funds disbursed to                    1,833          3,710           1,525          1,694           2,413           3,294          2,052              —          16,521          27,333
Partnership for
Investments (a)
Proceeds of Investment                   —            (648)           (190)             —              —               —              —               —             (838)            —
Gain
Return of Capital                        —            (372)           (139)         (1,005)            —               —              —               —           (1,516)            —
Remeasurement Gains                    (527)          (139)            491            293             638             813            141              —            1,710            318
(Losses)
Realized Gains (Losses) on             (516)           358              80            (113)          (190)             96             17            (536)           (804)        (1,832)
Investments (b)

Investment in Partnership,     $      8,635   $      8,625    $      4,014    $     3,215    $      5,264    $      7,936   $      3,791    $      9,292    $    50,772    $     35,699
End of Year

Cost of Partnership            $      9,133   $      9,918    $      3,486    $     3,580    $      5,097    $      7,284   $      3,745    $     10,000    $    52,243    $     37,215
Investment

                               (a)   Amounts include management fees paid by Limited Partnerships to General Partners.  Management fees are recovered from the Corporation
                                   as part of capital in accordance with the Limited Partnership agreements.
                               (b)   Realized Gains (Losses) on investments includes $648 realized gains due to sale of investment by Yaletown Ventures II, and $190 realized
                                   gains due to sale of investment by iNovia.
                               Fair Value Hierarchy
                               Accounting standards establish a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to
                               measure fair value.  The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for
                               identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3
                               measurements).  The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:
                                     Level 1    Fair value is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
                                                  traded in active markets.  Level one primarily includes publicly traded listed equity investments.
                                     Level 2    Fair value is based on valuation methods that make use of inputs, other than quoted prices included
                                                  within level one, that are observable by market participation either directly through quoted prices for
                                                  similar but not identical assets or indirectly through observable market information used in valuation
                                                  models.  Level two primarily includes debt securities and derivative contracts not traded on a public
                                                  exchange and public equities not traded in an active market.
                                     Level 3    Fair value is based on valuation methods where inputs that are based on non-observable market data
                                                  have a significant impact on the valuation. For these investments trading activity is infrequent and fair
                                                  values are derived using valuation techniques.
                               Unrealized gains and losses due to changes in the fair value of investments in Limited Partnerships, and the
                               fluctuations in foreign exchange currency rates are recorded in the Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses.
                               Inputs are used in applying the various valuation techniques and broadly refer to the assumptions that market
                               participants use to make valuation decisions, including assumptions about risk.  Inputs may include price
                               information, volatility statistics, specific and broad credit data, liquidity statistics, and other factors.  An investment’s
                               level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value
                               measurement.  However, the determination of what constitutes “observable” requires significant judgment by the
                               Corporation.  The Corporation considers observable data to be that market data which is readily available, regularly
                               distributed or updated, reliable and verifiable, not proprietary, provided by multiple, independent sources that are
                               actively involved in the relevant market.  The categorization of an investment within the hierarchy is based upon the
                               pricing transparency of the investment and does not necessarily correspond to the Corporation’s perceived risk of
                               that investment.
                               The Corporation’s investments have all been classified within level 3 as the fair value is based on valuation methods
                               where inputs that are based on non-observable market data have a significant impact on the valuation.  When
                               observable prices are not available for these securities, the Limited Partnerships use one or more valuation
                               techniques (e.g. the market approach, the income approach) for which sufficient and reliable data is available.
                               Within level 3, the use of the market approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions, while the
                               use of the income approach generally consists of the net present value of the estimated future cash flows, adjusted
                               as appropriate for liquidity, credit, market and/or other risk factors.

---PDF PAGE 83---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                              Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                        79


                   Note 4     Investments (continued)                                                                                                             (in thousands)
                              As quoted market prices are not readily available for private investments, estimated fair values may not reflect
                              amounts that could be realized upon immediate sale, nor amounts that may ultimately be realized.  Accordingly, the
                              estimated fair values may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market existed
                              for these investments.
                              Risks
                              The Corporation is subject to market and liquidity risk with respect to its investment portfolio.
                              Market Risk
                              Market risk encompasses the potential for both losses and gains, and includes price risk and foreign currency risk.
                              Price risk is the risk of a potential of decline in the price of an investment or an asset.  Foreign currency risk is the risk
                              that the value of an investment is affected by changes in exchange rates.
                              The Corporation’s price risk is driven primarily by volatility in its venture capital investments.  The Corporation
                              generally invests in Limited Partnerships in the initial stages of development.  Because of the inherent uncertainty of
                              valuations, estimated fair values may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready
                              market for the securities existed, and the difference could be material.
                              The value of the Corporation’s investments in Limited Partnerships denominated in foreign currencies may change
                              due the changes in exchange rates.
                              If the value of the Canadian dollar increased by 10% against the U.S. dollar, and all other variables are held constant,
                              the potential loss in fair value to the Corporation would be approximately 3.4% of total investments (2013 - 3.5%).
                              Liquidity Risk
                              Liquidity risk is the risk that a given investment or asset cannot be traded quickly enough in the market to prevent a
                              loss.
                              The Corporation’s investments are long term and highly illiquid.  There is no assurance that the Corporation will
                              ultimately realize the carrying value of the investments.
                              To manage these risks, the Corporation has established policies around the type of limited partnerships that it
                              invests in.  In addition, each limited partnership has established a target mix of investment types designed to
                              achieve the optimal returns within reasonable risk tolerance and in accordance with the Limited Partnership’s
                              investment mandate.  The Corporation does not participate in any foreign currency hedging activities.
                              The Corporation is not exposed to significant credit, and interest risk.

                 Note 5       Contractual Obligations                                                                                                               (in thousands)

                              Contractual obligations are obligations of the Corporation to others that will become liabilities in the future when
                              the terms of those contracts are met.  The Corporation has committed funds to be paid into limited partnerships.
                              The details of the commitments are listed in Note 4.

                                                                               2014           2013

                              Obligations under Operating Leases           $        181   $        525
                              Obligations under Service Contracts                   465          1,022

                                                                           $        646   $      1,547


                                              Operating       Service
                                                Leases       Contracts         Total

                              2014-15        $         30   $       465    $        495
                              2015-16                  32             —              32
                              2016-17                  32             —              32
                              2017-18                  32             —              32
                              2018-19                  32             —              32
                              Thereafter               23             —              23

                                             $       181    $       465    $        646

---PDF PAGE 84---
80                                                                 Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                      IAE Annual Report 2013-2014


               Note 6      Comparative Figures

                           Certain 2013 figures have been reclassified to conform to the 2014 presentation.

               Note 7      Approval of Financial Statements

                           The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors.

---PDF PAGE 85---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                                     Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                                  81
                                Schedules to the Financial Statements

                                for the year ended March 31, 2014


             Schedule 1         Expenses Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                                                                                      (in thousands)

                                                                                                               2014                    2013
                                                                                                     Budget           Actual           Actual

                                Grants and Sponsorships                                            $         52    $        190     $        272
                                Salaries, Wages, Benefits, and Payments to Consultants                      608             496              905
                                Supplies and Services                                                       490             458              904

                                                                                                   $      1,150    $      1,144     $      2,081


            Schedule 2          Salary and Benefits Disclosure                                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                                                                               2014                                     2013
                                                                                                                                       Other
                                                                                                                   Other Cash        Non-Cash
                                                                                                  Compensation (1)  Benefits (2)    Benefits (3)        Total           Total

                                Chair of the Board                                                 $         —     $          44    $           2   $          46    $         51
                                Board Members (four)                                                         —                68                3              71              74
                                Executives:
                                    Chief Executive Officer (4)                                              72               —               —                72             225
                                    Interim Managing Director (5)                                            18               —               —                18              —
                                    Director, Investments                                                   126               —               —              126              155
                                    Director, Investments and Interim Manager (6)                           171               15              —              186              187
                                    Director, Industry Development (7)                                       —                —               —                —               92

                                (1)   Base compensation is established through contractual agreeements.
                                (2)   Other Cash Benefits for Board members include honoraria payments and per diem allowances.  Other Cash Benefits for Executives are
                                     discretionary amounts to be paid on achieving certain milestones, requiring CEO approval.
                                (3)   Other Non-cash Benefits  for Board members includes Canada Pension Plan payments.  No non-cash benefits were provided to Executives.
                                (4)   This position was occupied on a part time basis until July 2013.
                                (5)   This position became responsible for the interim part-time management of AEC effective February 1, 2014 to September 30, 2014.
                                (6)   This position became responsible for the interim management of AEC effective August 6, 2013.
                                (7)   This position was occupied until November 2012.

---PDF PAGE 86---
82                                                                       Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                            IAE Annual Report 2013-2014


             Schedule 3       Related Party Transactions                                                                                                           (in thousands)

                              Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Government of
                              Alberta’s financial statements.  Related parties also include management of the Corporation.
                              Entities in the Ministry refers to entities consolidated in the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced Education.  Other
                              entities outside of the Ministry relate to the remaining entities consolidated at the Provincial level.
                              The Corporation had the following transactions with related parties which are recorded in the Statement of
                              Operations and the Statement of Financial Position at the amount of consideration agreed upon between the related
                              parties:

                                                                                                                Other Entities
                                                                             Entities in the Ministry      Outside of the Ministry
                                                                              2014            2013           2014           2013

                              Revenues

                                 Grants                                    $      1,050   $      2,150   $         —    $         —

                              Expenses – Directly Incurred

                                 Other Services                            $         81   $         63   $         34   $         62

                              Payables to                                  $         36   $          3   $         —    $         —

                              Contractual Obligations                      $         25   $         25   $        621   $      1,522

                              The Corporation receives financial services such as financial reporting and transaction processing from the
                              Department of Innovation and Advanced Education at no charge.

---PDF PAGE 87---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                        Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                           83


                      Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                         Unaudited Information
                      Alberta Innovates Corporations                                                                                 84

                      Public Post-Secondary Institutions
                         Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions                                                            85
                         Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions                                                              86
                         Polytechnical Institutions                                                                                  87
                         Comprehensive Community Institutions                                                                        88
                         Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions                                                                   90

---PDF PAGE 88---
84                                                                        Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                   IAE Annual Report 2013-2014
                                 Alberta Innovates Corporations
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for March 31, 2014                                                                                                                                   (in thousands)
                                                                                                                       Alberta
                                                                                                                     Innovates –        Alberta
                                                                                                       Alberta       Energy and       Innovates –
                                                                                                    Innovates –     Environment       Technology
                                                                                                   Bio Solutions      Solutions         Futures        2014 Totals      2013 Totals

                                 Statement of Financial Position

                                    Assets
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                   $     16,655     $     54,616     $     70,274    $    141,545     $    115,457
                                        Accounts Receivable and Other Assets                               4,222            1,247           16,542          22,011           21,431
                                        Capital Assets                                                         —                51          30,883          30,934           29,325

                                                                                                    $     20,877     $     55,914     $   117,699     $    194,490     $    166,213

                                    Liabilities
                                        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                    $      1,276     $      3,173     $     19,582    $     24,031     $     28,042
                                        Deferred Revenue                                                  11,118           23,216           44,407          78,741           51,333
                                                                                                          12,394           26,389           63,989         102,772           79,375

                                    Net Assets
                                        Accumulated Operating Surplus                                      8,483           29,525           53,710          91,718           86,838

                                                                                                    $     20,877     $     55,914     $   117,699     $    194,490     $    166,213

                                 Statement of Operations
                                    Revenue                                                         $     17,865     $     23,147     $   161,581     $    202,593     $    203,985
                                    Expenses                                                              21,837           20,197         155,679          197,713          190,228

                                    Net Income (Loss)                                               $      (3,972)   $      2,950     $      5,902    $       4,880    $     13,757

                                 Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                    Cash and Short-Term Investments, Beginning of Year              $     19,619     $     41,347     $     54,491    $    115,457     $     83,626
                                    Cash Provided from (Used in) Operating Activities                      (2,964)         13,269           21,245          31,550           39,196
                                    Cash Generated (Used) by Organizational Activities                         —               —            (5,462)          (5,462)          (7,365)

                                    Cash and Short-Term Investments, End of Year                    $     16,655     $     54,616     $     70,274    $    141,545     $    115,457

                                 Salary and Benefits of CEO Positions
                                    Base Salary                                                     $        250     $        260     $        344
                                    Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                     7               75              88
                                    Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                      81               12              47

                                                                                                    $        338     $        347     $        479

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full audited financial
                                      statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                 (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                      etc.

---PDF PAGE 89---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                               Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                                                85
                                 Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for March 31, 2014                                                                                                                                 (in thousands)
                                                                                                   University of    University of   University of     Athabasca
                                                                                                      Alberta         Calgary        Lethbridge       University      2014 Totals      2013 Totals
                                                                                                                                                                                          (Restated)
                                 Statement of Financial Position

                                    Assets
                                       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                   $     25,188     $    392,288     $      9,053    $       4,009    $   430,538      $   438,132
                                       Investments                                                    1,883,164        1,395,273         172,802           39,474       3,490,713        3,021,261
                                       Accounts Receivable                                              110,461           90,012            6,992            2,278        209,743          233,407
                                       Inventories and Prepaid Expenses                                  15,825           29,968            2,384            4,110          52,287           48,929
                                       Capital Assets                                                 2,739,548        1,626,849         306,384           57,862       4,730,643        4,656,165
                                       Investment in Government Business Enterprises                          —            3,702               —                —            3,702            1,205

                                                                                                   $  4,774,186     $  3,538,092     $   497,615     $    107,733     $ 8,917,626      $ 8,399,099

                                    Liabilities
                                       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                    $    251,036     $    149,156     $     11,534    $       9,027    $   420,753      $   342,009
                                       Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                              250,303          134,267           43,066          22,421         450,057          434,776
                                       Debt                                                             202,023          298,897            9,664               —         510,584          342,320
                                       Deferred Revenue                                               2,633,778        1,751,224         234,161           71,335       4,690,498        4,774,084
                                                                                                      3,337,140        2,333,544         298,425          102,783       6,071,892        5,893,189

                                       Net Assets                                                     1,437,046        1,204,548         199,190             4,950      2,845,734        2,505,910

                                                                                                   $  4,774,186     $  3,538,092     $   497,615     $    107,733     $ 8,917,626      $ 8,399,099

                                 Statement of Operations
                                    Revenue                                                        $  1,764,535     $  1,211,397     $   203,401     $    130,354     $ 3,309,687      $ 3,249,487
                                    Expenses                                                          1,746,161        1,145,697         200,305          126,726       3,218,889        3,128,646

                                    Net Income (Loss)                                              $     18,374     $     65,700     $      3,096    $       3,628    $     90,798     $   120,841

                                 Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                    Cash and Short-Term Investments, Beginning of Year             $     17,156     $    399,399     $     18,662    $       2,915    $   438,132      $   458,479
                                    Cash Provided from (Used in) Operating Activities                   170,759          185,719           11,599            5,092        373,169          352,814
                                    Cash Generated (Used) by Organizational Activities                 (162,727)        (192,830)         (21,208)          (3,998)       (380,763)       (373,161)

                                    Cash and Short-Term Investments, End of Year                   $     25,188     $    392,288     $      9,053    $       4,009    $   430,538      $   438,132

                                 Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                    Base Salary                                                    $         544    $        457     $        371    $         369
                                    Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                   47               28              55               34
                                    Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                    553             247              162              134

                                                                                                   $       1,144    $        732     $        588    $         537

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full audited financial
                                      statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                 (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                      etc.

---PDF PAGE 90---
86                                                                         Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                   IAE Annual Report 2013-2014
                                 Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for June 30, 2013                                                                                                                                      (in thousands)
                                                                                                         Grant
                                                                                                      MacEwan         Mount Royal
                                                                                                      University       University      2013 Totals      2012 Totals
                                                                                                                                                           (Restated)
                                 Statement of Financial Position

                                     Assets
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                    $     56,309     $     33,605     $     89,914     $     91,259
                                        Investments                                                        82,995          103,855          186,850          178,972
                                        Accounts Receivable                                                  4,112          17,800           21,912           20,306
                                        Inventories and Prepaid Expenses                                     5,293            2,040            7,333            6,848
                                        Capital Assets                                                    285,443          234,332          519,775          515,737

                                                                                                     $    434,152     $    391,632     $    825,784     $    813,122

                                     Liabilities
                                        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                     $     29,209     $     21,091     $     50,300     $     47,983
                                        Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                  3,326            2,245            5,571            5,075
                                        Debt                                                               44,219           60,376          104,595          109,213
                                        Deferred Revenue                                                  161,106          217,719          378,825          366,181
                                                                                                          237,860          301,431          539,291          528,452

                                        Net Assets                                                        196,292           90,201          286,493          284,670

                                                                                                     $    434,152     $    391,632     $    825,784     $    813,122

                                 Statement of Operations
                                     Revenue                                                         $$   228,976     $$   223,737     $$   452,713     $$   430,360
                                     Expenses                                                             234,885          214,757          449,642          436,635

                                     Net Income (Loss)                                               $$     (5,909)   $$      8,980    $$      3,071    $$     (6,275)

                                 Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                     Cash and Short-Term Investments, Beginning of Year              $     62,748     $     28,511     $     91,259     $    109,323
                                     Cash Provided from (Used in) Operating Activities                       3,140          39,205           42,345           19,926
                                     Cash Generated (Used) by Organizational Activities                     (9,579)        (34,111)         (43,690)         (37,990)

                                     Cash and Short-Term Investments, End of Year                    $     56,309     $     33,605     $     89,914     $     91,259

                                 Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                     Base Salary                                                     $         307    $         242
                                     Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                    20               73
                                     Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                      68               86

                                                                                                     $         395    $         401

                                 (1)   Commencing July 1, 2012, these universities adopted Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS) as issued by the Public Sector
                                      Accounting Board to prepare their financial statements.  In accordance with PSA Handbook Section 2125 (First-time Adoption), the date of
                                      transition to PSAS is July 1, 2011.  Therefore the adoption of PSAS has been applied retrospectively from the date of transition resulting in the
                                      restatement of prior year amounts.  Full audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                 (3)   Non-cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                      etc.

---PDF PAGE 91---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                                 Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                                                    87
                                  Polytechnical Institutions
                                  Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                  for June 30, 2013                                                                                                                                       (in thousands)
                                                                                                        Northern         Southern
                                                                                                         Alberta          Alberta
                                                                                                       Institute of     Institute of
                                                                                                       Technology       Technology       2013 Totals      2012 Totals
                                                                                                                                                             (Restated)
                                  Statement of Financial Position

                                     Assets
                                         Cash and Cash Equivalents                                     $      2,368     $   149,210      $    151,578     $    246,666
                                         Investments                                                       242,031            45,009          287,040          248,231
                                         Accounts Receivable                                                  6,942           11,908           18,850           17,098
                                         Inventories and Prepaid Expenses                                     6,334            1,874            8,208             8,041
                                         Capital Assets                                                    263,712          743,616        1,007,328           937,843

                                                                                                       $   521,387      $   951,617      $ 1,473,004      $  1,457,879

                                     Liabilities
                                         Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                      $     31,233     $     54,946     $     86,179     $    107,418
                                         Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                 23,993           10,101           34,094           33,517
                                         Debt                                                                23,081         148,792           171,873          169,717
                                         Deferred Revenue                                                  212,536          523,156           735,692          730,122
                                                                                                           290,843          736,995        1,027,838         1,040,774

                                         Net Assets                                                        230,544          214,622           445,166          417,105

                                                                                                       $   521,387      $   951,617      $ 1,473,004      $  1,457,879

                                  Statement of Operations
                                     Revenue                                                           $$  321,887      $$  322,206      $$   644,093     $$   605,819
                                     Expenses                                                              317,569          308,928           626,497          583,776

                                     Net Income (Loss)                                                 $$     4,318     $$    13,278     $$    17,596     $$    22,043

                                  Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                     Cash and Short-Term Investments, Beginning of Year                $      6,561     $   240,105      $    246,666     $    292,105
                                     Cash Provided from (Used in) Operating Activities                       27,960           32,319           60,279          139,580
                                     Cash Generated (Used) by Organizational Activities                     (32,153)        (123,214)        (155,367)        (185,019)

                                     Cash and Short-Term Investments, End of Year                      $      2,368     $   149,210      $    151,578     $    246,666

                                  Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                     Base Salary                                                       $        301     $        282
                                     Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                    103              107
                                     Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                      106              571

                                                                                                       $        510     $        960

                                  (1)   Commencing July 1, 2012, these polytechnical institutions adopted Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS) as issued by the
                                       Public Sector Accounting Board to prepare their financial statements.  In accordance with PSA Handbook Section 2125 (First-time Adoption),
                                       the date of transition to PSAS is July 1, 2011.  Therefore the adoption of PSAS has been applied retrospectively from the date of transition
                                       resulting in the restatement of prior year amounts.  Full audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                  (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                  (3)   Non-cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                       etc.

---PDF PAGE 92---
88                                                                         Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                  IAE Annual Report 2013-2014
                Comprehensive Community Institutions
                Summary Financial Statements (1)
                for June 30, 2013                                                                                                                                                     (in thousands)
                                                                                                       Grande
                                                                                                        Prairie
                                                                                    Bow Valley        Regional          Keyano          Lakeland        Lethbridge     Medicine Hat       NorQuest
                                                                                      College          College          College          College          College         College          College

                Statement of Financial Position

                    Assets
                       Cash and Cash Equivalents                                    $     48,994     $      4,124    $     22,280     $     13,205     $     16,311     $      9,952     $     34,919
                       Investments                                                        40,316          30,984             4,644          25,997           37,944           21,987            5,000
                       Accounts Receivable                                                 4,900            1,139              837            1,995           1,877            1,767            2,536
                       Inventories and Prepaid Expenses                                      410              565          19,699             3,086           1,781              849            1,066
                       Capital Assets                                                   283,591           72,392          122,200           72,661           74,118           82,313           32,204

                                                                                    $   378,211      $   109,204     $    169,660     $    116,944     $    132,031     $   116,868      $     75,725

                    Liabilities
                       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                     $      9,406     $      6,583    $     13,963     $       7,267    $      6,328     $      4,199     $      8,883
                       Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                 1,229              618               —               260           1,255              396              895
                       Debt                                                             279,168           15,746           25,730             1,680           9,128            2,932              215
                       Deferred Revenue                                                      345          54,871           83,311           67,386           66,252           63,421           32,571
                                                                                        290,148           77,818          123,004           76,593           82,963           70,948           42,564

                       Net Assets                                                         88,063          31,386           46,656           40,351           49,068           45,920           33,161

                                                                                    $   378,211      $   109,204     $    169,660     $    116,944     $    132,031     $   116,868      $     75,725

                Statement of Operations
                    Revenue                                                         $$    91,968     $$   75,530     $$    84,215     $$    67,759     $$    84,956     $$    55,767     $$    79,813
                    Expenses                                                              85,701          74,853           80,037           65,678           83,711           55,059           79,030

                    Net Income (Loss)                                               $$     6,267     $$       677    $$      4,178    $$      2,081    $$     1,245     $$       708     $$       783

                Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                    Cash and Short-Term Investments, Beginning of Year              $     52,582     $    10,605     $     37,930     $     11,496     $     25,345     $      7,437     $     30,725
                    Cash Provided from (Used in) Operating Activities                       (558)           6,269          13,308             9,090           4,156            3,818            5,942
                    Cash Generated (Used) by Organizational Activities                    (3,030)         (12,750)         (28,958)          (7,381)        (13,190)          (1,303)          (1,748)

                    Cash and Short-Term Investments, End of Year                    $     48,994     $      4,124    $     22,280     $     13,205     $     16,311     $      9,952     $     34,919

                Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                    Base Salary                                                     $        225     $        308    $         234    $         260    $        117     $        198     $        268
                    Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                    50              —               123               —                28             101                50
                    Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                      10              28               26               30               17               97               56

                                                                                    $        285     $        336    $         383    $         290    $        162     $        396     $        374

                (1)   Commencing July 1, 2012, these colleges adopted Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS) as issued by the Public Sector Accounting Board to
                     prepare their financial statements.  In accordance with PSA Handbook Section 2125 (First-time Adoption), the date of transition to PSAS is July 1, 2011.
                     Therefore the adoption of PSAS has been applied retrospectively from the date of transition resulting in the restatement of prior year amounts.  Full audited
                     financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                (3)   Non-cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance, etc.
                (4)   Olds College did not submit financial statements in time for publication.

---PDF PAGE 93---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                               Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                                                 89
                                 Comprehensive Community Institutions (continued)
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for June 30, 2013                                                                                                                                   (in thousands)

                                                                                                     Northern
                                                                                                       Lakes             Olds           Portage         Red Deer
                                                                                                      College          College          College          College       2013 Totals      2012 Totals
                                                                                                                                                                                           (Restated)
                                 Statement of Financial Position

                                    Assets
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                   $     11,236     $         —     $       6,059    $      1,943     $   169,023      $   192,681
                                        Investments                                                        8,970               —             5,054          59,156         240,052          254,664
                                        Accounts Receivable                                                2,199               —             2,351           2,221           21,822          20,030
                                        Inventories and Prepaid Expenses                                     599               —               562             870           29,487          25,972
                                        Capital Assets                                                    31,374               —           56,184          116,446         943,483          898,694

                                                                                                    $     54,378     $         —     $     70,210     $    180,636     $ 1,403,867      $ 1,392,041

                                    Liabilities
                                        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                    $      5,073     $         —     $       3,271    $     13,697     $     78,670     $    73,499
                                        Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                  592               —               303           1,699            7,247          34,584
                                        Debt                                                                   43              —                —            7,762         342,404          461,124
                                        Deferred Revenue                                                  31,637               —           54,286          113,080         567,160          442,180
                                                                                                          37,345               —           57,860          136,238         995,481        1,011,387

                                        Net Assets                                                        17,033               —           12,350           44,398         408,386          380,654

                                                                                                    $     54,378     $         —     $     70,210     $    180,636     $ 1,403,867      $ 1,392,041

                                 Statement of Operations
                                    Revenue                                                         $$    44,725     $$        —     $$    36,683     $$    98,207     $$  719,623      $$  679,072
                                    Expenses                                                              43,031               —           37,454           95,745         700,299          652,638

                                    Net Income (Loss)                                               $$     1,694     $$        —     $$       (771)   $$     2,462     $$    19,324     $$   26,434

                                 Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                    Cash and Short-Term Investments, Beginning of Year              $      8,825     $         —     $       6,903    $        833     $   192,681      $   125,415
                                    Cash Provided from (Used in) Operating Activities                      4,706               —               634             759           48,124          81,270
                                    Cash Generated (Used) by Organizational Activities                    (2,295)              —            (1,478)            351          (71,782)         (14,004)

                                    Cash and Short-Term Investments, End of Year                    $     11,236     $         —     $       6,059    $      1,943     $   169,023      $   192,681

                                 Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                    Base Salary                                                     $        172     $         —     $         198    $        279
                                    Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                    53              —                —                52
                                    Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                      18              —                32               30

                                                                                                    $        243     $         —     $         230    $        361

                                 (1)   Commencing July 1, 2012, these colleges adopted Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS) as issued by the Public Sector
                                      Accounting Board to prepare their financial statements.  In accordance with PSA Handbook Section 2125 (First-time Adoption), the date of
                                      transition to PSAS is July 1, 2011.  Therefore the adoption of PSAS has been applied retrospectively from the date of transition resulting in the
                                      restatement of prior year amounts.  Full audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                 (3)   Non-cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                      etc.
                                 (4)   Olds College did not submit financial statements in time for publication.

---PDF PAGE 94---
90                                                                           Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                    IAE Annual Report 2013-2014
                                  Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions
                                  Summary Financial Statements
                                                                                                       for June 30, 2013 (1)              for March 31, 2014 (2)                           (in thousands)
                                                                                                            Alberta College of
                                                                                                               Art + Design                    The Banff Centre
                                                                                                           2013             2012              2014             2013

                                                                                                                            (Restated)                        (Restated)
                                  Statement of Financial Position

                                     Assets
                                         Cash and Cash Equivalents                                     $       8,707    $       9,170     $      3,757     $      4,610
                                         Investments                                                           6,701            5,993           38,084           31,041
                                         Accounts Receivable                                                     214              262            6,120            6,456
                                         Inventories and Prepaid Expenses                                        548              518              657               691
                                         Capital Assets                                                        5,145            5,119         140,971           144,905

                                                                                                       $     21,315     $     21,062      $   189,589      $    187,703

                                     Liabilities
                                         Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                      $       1,987    $       1,511     $      3,881     $      4,472
                                         Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                     239              377            3,526            3,601
                                         Debt                                                                    157               83              834            1,206
                                         Deferred Revenue                                                      9,649          10,128          129,614           134,870
                                                                                                             12,032           12,099          137,855           144,149

                                         Net Assets                                                            9,283            8,963           51,734           43,554

                                                                                                       $     21,315     $     21,062      $   189,589      $    187,703

                                  Statement of Operations
                                     Revenue                                                           $     21,333     $     21,428      $     59,810     $     57,854
                                     Expenses                                                                21,117           21,043            59,273           56,657

                                     Net Income (Loss)                                                 $         216    $         385     $        537     $      1,197

                                  Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                     Cash and Short-Term Investments, Beginning of Year                $       9,170    $       9,281     $      4,610     $         910
                                     Cash Provided from (Used in) Operating Activities                           748            1,743            1,080            5,540
                                     Cash Generated (Used) by Organizational Activities                       (1,211)          (1,854)          (1,933)           (1,840)

                                     Cash and Short-Term Investments, End of Year                      $       8,707    $       9,170     $      3,757     $      4,610

                                  Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                     Base Salary                                                       $         259                      $        288
                                     Other Cash Benefits (3)                                                      —                                  45
                                     Non-Cash Benefits (4)                                                        41                               111

                                                                                                       $         300                      $        444

                                  (1)   Commencing July 1, 2012, Alberta College of Art + Design adopted Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS) as issued by the
                                       Public Sector Accounting Board to prepare their financial statements.  In accordance with PSA Handbook Section 2125 (First-time Adoption),
                                       the date of transition to PSAS is July 1, 2011.  Therefore the adoption of PSAS has been applied retrospectively from the date of transition
                                       resulting in the restatement of prior year amounts.  Full audited financial statements for this entity are available on their website.
                                  (2)   Financial statements for this entity are prepared using Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS), including the PS4200 series of
                                       standards for government not-for-profit organisations.  Full audited financial statements for this entity are available on their website.
                                  (3)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                  (4)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                       etc.

---PDF PAGE 95---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                   Other Information                                                          91


                       Other Information                                                                                 Unaudited Information
                       Endnotes                                                                                                         92
                       Statement of Remissions, Compromises and Write-offs                                                              96
                       Statement of Guarantees and Indemnities                                                                          96

---PDF PAGE 96---
92                                                                          Other Information                                                IAE Annual Report 2013-2014
                            Endnotes

           Endnote A        Proportion of Albertans Aged 18-34 Participating in Post-Secondary Education
                            This measure is produced as a special tabulation for Innovation and Advanced Education by Statistics Canada based
                            on data collected in the Labour Force Survey.
                            Statistics Canada's Labour Force Survey is a monthly, Canada-wide survey of a representative sample of households
                            in the provinces and territories.  Data are collected on all members of the household who are 15 years of age or
                            older.  Persons living on reserves and other Aboriginal settlements in the provinces; full-time members of the
                            Canadian Forces; and the institutionalized population are excluded from the survey.
                            The Canadian sample size for the monthly Labour Force Survey was 56,027 households, with an average of 5,540
                            Alberta households surveyed each month in 2013.
                            The coefficient of variation (the standard error as a percentage of the reported result) for the estimate (Albertans
                            18-34 participating in post-secondary education: 182,000) is approximately 2.5%.
                            Additional information on the Labour Force Survey methodology is available online in the 2014 Guide to the Labour
                            Force Survey (Catalogue no. 71-543-G).

            Endnote B       Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey
                            The Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey is conducted every other year.  Graduates of publicly funded
                            post-secondary institutions are surveyed two years after graduation.  The most recent survey was conducted January
                            to April 2012 by an independent third-party contractor.
                            The survey population was provided to the contractor from an internal source.  Graduates were surveyed by
                            telephone and Internet about their employment outcomes upon graduating, further studies undertaken, and
                            satisfaction with the overall quality of their educational experience.  Interviews were conducted with 12,891
                            graduates from parchment programs at 25 Alberta publicly funded post-secondary institutions.  A census approach
                            was used, meaning that all graduates were invited to participate rather than a random sample.  Margin of error refers
                            to the measurable sampling error that occurs when a random sample is used to estimate results of a population, and
                            is not applicable to a census.  If the same number of interviews had been completed using a random sample of
                            graduates rather than a census, the margin of error would be ±0.8 percentage points, 19 times out of 20, which is
                            comparable with previous survey cycles.
                            Satisfaction questions are based on a four-point scale.  Satisfaction rates are the combined results of the responses
                            “satisfied” and “very satisfied.” The percentage result is calculated by dividing the total “satisfied” and “very satisfied”
                            responses by the total number of survey respondents, not including respondents who answered “don't know” or “no
                            response.”
                            The complete survey report is available on the Ministry’s Facts and Stats webpage.

---PDF PAGE 97---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                                    Other Information                                                                              93

            Endnote C        Use of Confidence Intervals for Interpreting Survey Results
                             When a result is obtained by surveying a random sample of the target population (e.g. the public, graduates), there
                             is a confidence interval associated with the result, which is expressed as a percentage above and below the result
                             (e.g. ±2.5%).  A 95% confidence interval (which is usually the standard reported) indicates a range around the
                             sample’s result within which the population’s actual result will fall 19 times out of 20, i.e. 95%, should the survey be
                             repeated a number of times.  This makes it possible to determine whether differences in survey results over time are
                             likely the result of sampling (differences falling within the confidence interval or “margin of error”), or represent
                             actual change.
                             When comparing results of survey questions over time or among respondent groups, if there is no overlap between
                             the confidence intervals of the two observed values, then the difference between the two results is considered to be
                             real.  When the confidence intervals of the two observed values do overlap, the difference could be attributable to
                             sampling variation, and the difference cannot be considered real.
                             The following hypothetical examples illustrate:
                             a)   two survey results where the confidence intervals overlap: no real difference in results
                                   Where two survey results are 76% and 80%, both with a margin of error of 2.5%, then the upper limit of the
                                  confidence interval for the 76% result is 78.5%, and the lower limit of the confidence interval of the 80% result is
                                  77.5%.  Since the confidence intervals overlap, it cannot be concluded that there is a real difference between the
                                  two survey results, as the observed difference could be due to sampling variation.
                             b)   two survey results where the confidence intervals do not overlap: a real difference in results
                                   If the two survey results are 74% (with a confidence interval of 2.5%) and 80% (also with a confidence interval of
                                  2.5%), the upper limit of the confidence interval for the 74% result is 76.5%, and the lower limit of the confidence
                                  interval of the 80% result is 77.5%.  Since the confidence intervals do not overlap, it can be concluded that there
                                  is a real difference between the two survey results, as sampling variation alone does not account for the
                                  observed difference.

           Endnote D         Survey of Apprenticeship Graduates
                             The Survey of Apprenticeship Graduates is conducted every other year.  Field work was conducted October-
                             December 2012.  The survey population was provided to the contractor from the Apprenticeship Trade and
                             Occupation Management System (ATOMS).  Interviews were conducted with 4,073 apprentices who had graduated
                             between August 1, 2011 and July 31, 2012.
                             Respondents were contacted initially by phone or email and given an option to complete the survey online.
                             Graduates commented on the program they completed, typically a 4-year program.
                             Satisfaction questions are based on a four-point scale.  Satisfaction rates combine the “somewhat satisfied” and “very
                             satisfied” results.  The percentage result is calculated by dividing the total of “somewhat satisfied” and “very satisfied”
                             responses by the total number of survey respondents, including respondents who answered “don't know.”
                             The confidence interval by cohort is as follows:

                                                                                                                        Completed      Confidence
                             Cohort                                                                      Population     Interviews       Interval
                             1. Graduates who attended technical training and completed on-the-job             3,824          2,184         ±1.4%
                                training requirements of their trade in the 2011-12 school year
                             2. Graduates who completed their apprenticeship program in the                    3,632          1,889         ±1.6%
                                2011-12 school year, but did not attend technical training in that year
                             Total                                                                             7,456          4,073         ±1.0%


            Endnote E        Learner and Enrolment Reporting System
                             The Learner and Enrolment Reporting System (LERS) is a database used by the Ministry to track learner
                             demographics and enrolments in the post-secondary learning system.  Publicly funded post-secondary institutions
                             submit their enrolment data to the Ministry.  These data are subject to a host of accountability constraints and are
                             signed off by institutional and Ministry officials once verified.  Data for Alberta’s publicly funded institutions are
                             reported in LERS for the academic year (May to April for comprehensive academic and research institutions and
                             independent academic institutions; July to June for the Alberta College of Art and Design, baccalaureate and applied
                             studies institutions, polytechnical institutions, and comprehensive community institutions).  Finalized data are
                             available in the fall for the previous academic year.  The Banff Centre does not report enrolments via LERS.

---PDF PAGE 98---
94                                                                          Other Information                                                 IAE Annual Report 2013-2014

            Endnote F        Educational Attainment
                             Educational attainment in this discussion is the percentage of the population aged 25-64 who have completed a
                             post-secondary program.  For the purposes of this indicator, post-secondary credentials include certificates and
                             diplomas (university, vocational, trade, community college) and university degrees.  The percentage is calculated by
                             dividing the number of people in the age range with a post-secondary certificate or diploma or university degree by
                             the total number of Albertans in the same age range.
                             The Labour Force Survey is a monthly household survey of a sample of individuals who are representative of the
                             civilian, non-institutionalized population 15 years of age or older.  It is conducted nationwide, in both the provinces
                             and the territories.  Excluded from the survey’s coverage are: persons living on reserves and other Aboriginal
                             settlements in the provinces; full-time members of the Canadian Forces; and the institutionalized population.  These
                             groups together represent an exclusion of approximately 2% of the population aged 15 and over.
                             The co-efficient of variation (the standard error as a percentage of the reported result) for the estimate (Albertans
                             25-64 having completed a post-secondary credential: 1,388,100) is approximately 1.0%.
                             Additional information on the Labour Force Survey methodology is available online in the 2014 Guide to the Labour
                             Force Survey (Catalogue no. 71-543-G).

           Endnote G         Total Sponsored Research Revenue Attracted by Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and
                             Research Institutions
                             This performance measure reflects the amount of sponsored research at the four Comprehensive Academic and
                             Research Institutions (CARIs).  The main funding sources include the provincial and federal governments, industry,
                             and non-profit organizations.  Total sponsored research revenue is funding received outside of the CARIs’ base
                             operating grants and is comprised of research grants, research contracts, and research-related capital investments.
                             This performance measure reflects the research capability, capacity, and competitive standing of Alberta through
                             the success of its research universities in attracting sponsored research funding from several sources.
                             Sponsored research revenue data are collected directly from the CARIs, which submit the data using a template and
                             guidelines outlining the information required and specific instructions regarding how the revenue should be
                             reported.  The guidelines that Innovation and Advanced Education provides to the CARIs require that the data
                             collection process is consistent with the more detailed Canadian Association of University Business Officers (CAUBO)
                             guidelines.  Thus, the CARIs are required to follow the CAUBO reporting guidelines for the appropriate year.  The
                             adherence to CAUBO guidelines improves the quality and comparability of the data across jurisdictions.  The CARIs
                             derive the data from audited financial statements and supplementary schedules.  The reported data are compiled
                             and analyzed by Innovation and Advanced Education in the report, Sponsored Research Revenue: Research Funding
                             at Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions.

           Endnote H         Venture Capital Invested in Alberta
                             A restatement of venture capital data was required for all years due to the discontinuation of VCReporter, the
                             previous data source.  All data appearing in the performance measure chart, including historical results and current
                             year result, come from Thomson ONE.  Only the target, which was set in November 2012, is from VCReporter.
                             VCReporter was owned by Thomson Reuters and was replaced with their platform product, Thomson ONE.  Due to
                             VCReporter and Thomson ONE using different methodologies, the 2013 target and 2013 results are incomparable.
                             Therefore, there is no set target that applies to the 2013 result.
                             The previously reported VCReporter figures only included early and expansion stages while in this report all venture
                             capital stages are included: seed, early, late, and expansion stage.  Thomson ONE provides a more comprehensive list
                             of industries that were not included in VCReporter.  Thomson ONE tracks investments made by private equity
                             including buyouts firms, venture capital firms, angel investor networks, Small Business Investment Companies
                             (SBICs), venture subsidies of corporations of investment banks, and other similar entities whose primary activity is
                             private equity investment.  Thomson Reuters obtains data from active private equity fund managers in Canada.
                             There is no need for extrapolation or a coefficient of variation since the entire population of interest is surveyed.
                             Thomson ONE is a dynamic database with its data continually updated.  Data from earlier periods can be revised
                             when reported by firms.  The data provided in this report were downloaded on March 13, 2014.

---PDF PAGE 99---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                                  Other Information                                                                           95

            Endnote I        Manufacturing and Business Service Industry Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
                             The information for this performance measure is taken from the GDP by Industry table, published by Statistics
                             Canada.
                             GDP figures for eight industries are combined in this performance measure: manufacturing; information and cultural
                             industries; professional, scientific and technical services; transportation and warehousing; arts, entertainment and
                             recreation; accommodation and food services; finance and insurance; and administrative and support, waste
                             management and remediation services.
                             GDP is the total market value of all goods and services produced during a given year.  GDP is also referred to as
                             economic output.  To avoid counting the same output more than once, GDP includes only final goods and services –
                             not those that are used to make another product.  For a given industry, GDP is equal to its gross production (mainly
                             sales) less its intermediate consumption (energy, raw materials, services) stemming from other industries.  GDP by
                             industry (or at basic prices) corresponds to GDP at market prices excluding net taxes on products.
                             For this performance measure, GDP is measured in real dollars.  Real GDP is a measure of the volume of production.
                             To measure this concept, GDP expenditure-based components are adjusted to eliminate the effect of price change.
                             This process is known as deflation.

            Endnote J        Change in Manufacturing and Business Service Industry Labour Productivity
                             Statistics Canada released the 2013 provincial labour productivity estimates on June 20, 2014, not in time for the
                             2014 June publication of the 2013-14 annual report.  This was later than expected based on the previous year:
                             Statistics Canada released the 2012 provincial labour productivity estimates in May 2013.  Since the 2013 estimates
                             are not included in the 2013-14 annual report, there is no information to compare against the set target.
                             The information for this performance measure is from a special tabulation of the Labour Productivity and Related
                             Variables by Business Sector Industry table, published by Statistics Canada.  The labour productivity estimates for the
                             manufacturing and business service industry are provided on request by Statistics Canada, as the aggregation is not
                             available in the published table.
                             Labour productivity is calculated by dividing GDP by the number of hours worked.  The 3-year average annual
                             growth rate is used to lessen the effect of year-to-year fluctuations.
                             For information on GDP, see Endnote I.
                             Hours worked is defined as the total number of hours that a person spends working, whether paid or not.  In general,
                             this includes regular and overtime hours, breaks, travel time, training in the workplace, and time lost in brief work
                             stoppages where workers remain at their posts.  On the other hand, time lost due to strikes, lockouts, annual
                             vacation, public holidays, sick leave, maternity leave, or leave for personal needs are not included in total hours
                             worked.

---PDF PAGE 100---
96                                                                              Other Information                                                    IAE Annual Report 2013-2014

                              Statement of Remissions, Compromises and Write-offs
                              for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                     (in thousands)(in thousands)
                              The following statement has been prepared pursuant to Section 23 of the Financial Administration Act.  This
                              statement includes all remissions, compromises and write-offs made or approved during the fiscal period.


                              Remissions under Section 21 of the Financial Administration Act (1)                                                                       $         —
                              Compromises under Section 22 of the Financial Administration Act                                                                                    23
                              Write-offs – Implemented Guarantees, Indemnities, Loans and Advances – Section 20 of the Student Financial Assistance Act                        1,012

                              Total remissions, compromises and write-offs                                                                                              $      1,035

                              (1)   The Loan Relief Completion (LRCP) program was discontinued August 1, 2012, therefore there is no LRCP Provision going forward.

                              Statement of Guarantees and Indemnities given by the Crown and Provincial Corporations
                              for the year ended March 31, 2014                                                                                                     (in thousands)(in thousands)
                              The following has been prepared pursuant to Section 75 of the Financial Administration Act.  The statement
                              summarizes the amounts of all guarantees given by the Crown through the Ministry of Innovation and Advanced
                              Education under the Student Loan Act for the year ended March 31, 2014, the amounts paid to financial institutions
                              as a result of the guaranteed loan program, and the amounts recovered on debts owing as a result of payments
                              under guarantees.

                                                             Amount of
                                                             Guarantee       Payments       Recoveries

                              Crown Guarantees               $        —     $         15   $        192

---PDF PAGE 101---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                               Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports                                                        97


                            Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports
                            Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act
                               Chief officer’s annual report
                                 32(1)    Every chief officer must prepare a report annually on all disclosures that have been made to the
                                          designated officer of the department, public entity or office of the Legislature for which the chief officer
                                          is responsible.
                                    (2)   The report under subsection (1) must include the following information:
                                             (a)  the number of disclosures received by the designated officer, the number of disclosures acted on
                                                  and the number of disclosures not acted on by the designated officer;
                                            (b)   the number of investigations commenced by the designated officer as a result of disclosures;
                                             (c)  in the case of an investigation that results in a finding of wrongdoing, a description of the
                                                  wrongdoing and any recommendations made or corrective measures taken in relation to the
                                                  wrongdoing or the reasons why no corrective measure was taken.
                                    (3)   The report under subsection (1) must be included in the annual report of the department, public entity
                                          or office of the Legislature if the annual report is made publicly available, and if the annual report is not
                                          made publicly available, the chief officer must make the report under subsection (1) available to the
                                          public on request.

                            There were no disclosures of wrongdoing for the Department of Innovation and Advanced Education during the
                            period from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014.

---PDF PAGE 102---
98                                                                                         Other Information                                                              IAE Annual Report 2013-2014


                                  Contact Information
                                  Innovation and Advanced Education                                                      iae.alberta.ca
                                  Entities
                                      Access to the Future Fund                                                          iae.alberta.ca/post-secondary/funding/supportsinstitutions/aff.aspx
                                      Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                     alberta-enterprise.ca
                                      Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions                                                  bio.albertainnovates.ca
                                      Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions                               ai-ees.ca
                                      Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures                                             albertatechfutures.ca
                                  Advisory Boards, Councils and Authorities
                                      Access Advisory Council                                                            iae.alberta.ca/ministry/agencies/caadvisory/aac.aspx
                                      Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training Board                                 tradesecrets.alberta.ca
                                      Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer                                         acat.gov.ab.ca
                                      Alberta Research and Innovation Authority                                          aria.albertainnovates.ca
                                      Campus Alberta Quality Council                                                     caqc.gov.ab.ca
                                  Publicly Funded Post-Secondary Institutions
                                      Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                                         University of Alberta                                                           ualberta.ca
                                         University of Calgary                                                           ucalgary.ca
                                         University of Lethbridge                                                        uleth.ca
                                         Athabasca University                                                            athabascau.ca
                                      Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions
                                         Grant MacEwan University                                                        macewan.ca
                                         Mount Royal University                                                          mtroyal.ca
                                      Polytechnical Institutions
                                         Northern Alberta Institute of Technology                                        nait.ca
                                         Southern Alberta Institute of Technology                                        sait.ca
                                      Comprehensive Community Institutions
                                         Bow Valley College                                                              bowvalleycollege.ca
                                         Grande Prairie Regional College                                                 gprc.ab.ca
                                         Keyano College                                                                  keyano.ca
                                         Lakeland College                                                                lakelandcollege.ca
                                         Lethbridge College                                                              lethbridgecollege.ca
                                         Medicine Hat College                                                            mhc.ab.ca
                                         NorQuest College                                                                norquest.ab.ca
                                         Northern Lakes College                                                          northernlakescollege.ca
                                         Olds College                                                                    oldscollege.ca
                                         Portage College                                                                 portagecollege.ca
                                         Red Deer College                                                                rdc.ab.ca
                                      Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions
                                         Alberta College of Art + Design                                                 acad.ca
                                         The Banff Centre                                                                banffcentre.ca
                                      Independent Academic Institutions
                                         Ambrose University College                                                      ambrose.edu
                                         Canadian University College                                                     cauc.ca
                                         Concordia University College of Alberta                                         concordia.ab.ca
                                         St. Mary’s University College                                                   stmu.ab.ca
                                         The King’s University College                                                   kingsu.ca

---PDF PAGE 103---
IAE Annual Report 2013-2014                                           Innovation and Advanced Education
Publicly Funded Post-Secondary Institutions

Main Campuses














                                                                                                     Fort McMurray                                   Keyano College




Northern Lakes College                                                 Grouard
                                                                                               Slave Lake

Grande Prairie Regional College                            Grande Prairie                            Lac La Biche                                    Portage College
                                                                                             Athabasca                                               Athabasca University



University of Alberta                                                                      Edmonton
                                                                                                                    Vermilion                        Lakeland College
Grant MacEwan University
Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
NorQuest College                                                                                        Lacombe
Concordia University College of Alberta                                                                                                              Canadian University College

The King’s University College                                                                           Red Deer
                                                                                                                                                     Red Deer College
                                                                                                     Olds                                            Olds College
The Banff Centre                                                                       Banff

University of Calgary                                                                      Calgary

Mount Royal University
Southern Alberta Institute of Technology                                                                           Medicine Hat                      Medicine Hat College
Bow Valley College
Alberta College of Art + Design                                                                                   Lethbridge
Ambrose University College                                                                                                                           University of Lethbridge
St. Mary’s University College                                                                                                                        Lethbridge College

---PDF PAGE 104---
iae.alberta.ca/annualreports