
---PDF PAGE 1---
Advanced Education










                       Annual Report
                       2017-2018

---PDF PAGE 2---
For more information, contact:

Alberta Advanced Education
Communications
    mail   5   Floor, Phipps-McKinnon Buildingth
           10020 - 101A Avenue NW
           Edmonton, Alberta  T5J 3G2

internet   advancededucation.alberta.ca/ministry/reports/annualreports/

  email    AE.Planning-Evaluation@gov.ab.ca

 phone     780-422-5400
           (for toll-free access within Alberta, first dial 310-0000)

           Deaf callers with TTY equipment
             phone     780-427-9999
                       (for toll-free access within Alberta, first dial 310-0000)

Copyright © 2018, the Crown in Right of the Province of Alberta,
as represented by the Minister of Advanced Education.
Permission is given by the copyright owner for any person to reproduce
this document for educational purposes and on a non-profit basis.

Alberta Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018
           ISBN 978-1-4601-3930-1 (Print)
           ISBN 978-1-4601-3931-8 (PDF)
           ISSN 2371-2090 (Print)
           ISSN 2371-2104 (Online)

---PDF PAGE 3---
AE Annual Report 2017-2018                                 Advanced Education                                                         i







                      Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018
                        Preface                                                                                                      1
                        Minister’s Accountability Statement                                                                          2
                        Message from the Minister                                                                                    3
                        Management’s Responsibility for Reporting                                                                    4
                        Results Analysis                                                                                             5
                          Ministry Overview                                                                                          6
                          Discussion and Analysis of Results                                                                         9
                          Update on Risks to Achieving Outcomes                                                                     48
                          Financial Highlights                                                                                      50
                        Financial Information
                          Ministry of Advanced Education                                                                            53
                          Department of Advanced Education                                                                          81
                          Access to the Future Fund                                                                               101
                          Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                                 107
                        Other Information                                                                                         121
                        Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports                                                        123
                        Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology                                                             125
                        Appendix                                                                                                  133

---PDF PAGE 4---
ii                                                  Advanced Education                             AE Annual Report 2017-2018















          advancededucation.alberta.ca/ministry/reports/annualreports/

---PDF PAGE 5---
AE Annual Report 2017-2018                                             Advanced Education                                                                        1







                           Preface

                           The Public Accounts of Alberta are prepared in accordance with the Financial Administration Act and the
                           Fiscal Planning and Transparency Act.  The Public Accounts consist of the annual report of the Government
                           of Alberta and the annual reports of each of the 21 ministries.
                           The annual report of the Government of Alberta contains ministers’ accountability statements, the
                           consolidated financial statements of the province and the Measuring Up report, which compares actual
                           performance results to desired results set out in the government’s strategic plan.
                           This annual report of the Ministry of Advanced Education contains the minister’s accountability
                           statement, the audited consolidated financial statements of the ministry and a comparison of actual
                           performance results to desired results set out in the ministry business plan.  This ministry annual
                           report also includes:
                           „  the financial statements of entities making up the ministry including the Department of Advanced
                               Education, regulated funds and provincial agencies for which the minister is responsible; and
                           „  other financial information as required by the                                                           and Financial Administration Act           Fiscal Planning and
                               Transparency Act, either as separate reports or as a part of the financial statements, to the extent
                               that the ministry has anything to report.

---PDF PAGE 6---
2                                                                   Advanced Education                                           AE Annual Report 2017-2018







                         Minister’s Accountability Statement

                         The ministry’s annual report for the year ended March 31, 2018, was prepared under my direction in
                         accordance with the Fiscal Planning and Transparency Act and the government’s accounting policies.  All of
                         the government’s policy decisions as at June 6, 2018 with material economic or fiscal implications of which
                         I am aware have been considered in the preparation of this report.



                         Original signed by

                         Marlin Schmidt
                         Minister of Advanced Education

---PDF PAGE 7---
AE Annual Report 2017-2018                                            Advanced Education                                                                       3

                          Message from the Minister

                          As Minister of Advanced Education, I’m incredibly proud of the work that our government has
                          accomplished for students and families over the past year.  Previous governments forced students to pay
                          sky-high tuition to learn in crumbling classrooms.  That wasn’t right and students deserved better.  That’s
                          why, for the fourth year in a row, our government has again increased Campus Alberta Grants for all
                          post-secondary institutions by 2 per cent, as well as providing additional top up funding to further support
                          the tuition freeze.
                          Our government has the backs of students and families in this province and we’re committed to ensuring
                          that anyone who wants to get an education is able to do so.  We know that finances should never be a
                          barrier for those who want to access post-secondary education, which is why our government has
                          extended the tuition and fees freeze for a fourth year.  The freeze is saving students and families $1,500
                          each over the course of a degree.  That’s an extra $1,500 that can go to rent, books, extra-curricular
                          activities, or anything else they need that they may have struggled to afford before.  We are committed to
                          making life more affordable for everyday Albertans and this freeze is just one of the ways we are making
                          life better for folks across the province.
                          We’re making student loans and awards more accessible.  This past year we provided $617.7 million in
                          student loans, $53.4 million in grants and $44.8 million in scholarships and awards.  On top of that our
                          government provided $3.1 million through our Apprentice Training Award to support approximately 3,200
                          apprentices in getting the training or re-training they need to get the good jobs they deserve.
                          We’re investing in essential and life saving student mental health supports and programs on campuses in
                          every corner of the province.  We’ve committed $25.8 million over three years to ensure that these
                          supports are available on all 26 publicly funded campuses and will continue to work to ensure that
                          students have the supports they need when they need them.
                          We’re ensuring that students and faculty have the modern classrooms and facilities they deserve by
                          investing in much needed new infrastructure projects and repairs.  Projects like the Dentistry-Pharmacy
                          building renovations at the University of Alberta and upgrades to the MacKimmie Complex at the
                          University of Calgary are not only creating good jobs and helping Albertans get back to work, they’re
                          providing vital new teaching spaces for students as well.
                          We’re also building a diversified economy and supporting Albertans who are training for the jobs of
                          tomorrow.  This year we passed the Growth and Diversification Act which will create 3,000 new technology
                          spaces at our universities and colleges over the next five years.  These spaces, along with new scholarships
                          and grants, will be essential to developing a diversified high-tech workforce and ensuring everyday
                          Albertans will benefit from high-paying jobs in those sectors.
                          While our economy is growing and more folks are getting back to work, we know that there is still more
                          work for us to do.  Our government is going to continue our work to strengthen and protect the services
                          that Alberta families rely on like education.  Over the coming year we will continue our work to ensure that
                          post-secondary education remains affordable and accessible for everyone.



                          Original signed by

                          Marlin Schmidt
                          Minister of Advanced Education

---PDF PAGE 8---
4                                                                     Advanced Education                                             AE Annual Report 2017-2018

                          Management’s Responsibility for Reporting

                          The Ministry of Advanced Education includes:

                          „  the Department of Advanced Education,

                          „  the Access to the Future Fund, and

                          „  Public Post-Secondary Institutions.
                          The executives of the individual entities within the ministry have the primary responsibility and
                          accountability for the respective entities.  Collectively, the executives ensure the ministry complies with all
                          relevant legislation, regulations and policies.
                          Ministry business plans, annual reports, performance results and the supporting management information
                          are integral to the government’s fiscal and strategic plan, annual report, quarterly reports and other
                          financial and performance reporting.
                          Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the consolidated financial statements and performance
                          results for the ministry rests with the Minister of Advanced Education.  Under the direction of the Minister, I
                          oversee the preparation of the ministry’s annual report, including consolidated financial statements and
                          performance results.  The consolidated financial statements and the performance results, of necessity,
                          include amounts that are based on estimates and judgments.  The consolidated financial statements are
                          prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.  The performance measures are
                          prepared in accordance with the following criteria:

                          „  Reliability – information used in applying performance measure methodologies agrees with the
                              underlying source data for the current and prior years’ results.

                          „  Understandability – the performance measure methodologies and results are presented clearly.

                          „  Comparability – the methodologies for performance measure preparation are applied consistently for
                              the current and prior years’ results.

                          „  Completeness – outcomes, performance measures and related targets match those included in the
                              ministry’s 2017 budget.
                          As deputy minister, in addition to program responsibilities, I am responsible for the ministry’s financial
                          administration and reporting functions.  The ministry maintains systems of financial management and
                          internal control which give consideration to costs, benefits, and risks that are designed to:

                          „  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are properly authorized, executed in accordance with
                              prescribed legislation and regulations, and properly recorded so as to maintain accountability of public
                              money;

                          „  provide information to manage and report on performance;

                          „  safeguard the assets and properties of the province under ministry administration;

                          „  provide Executive Council, the President of Treasury Board, Minister of Finance, and the Minister of
                              Advanced Education the information needed to fulfill their responsibilities; and

                          „  facilitate the preparation of ministry business plans and annual reports required under the Fiscal
                              Planning and Transparency Act.
                          In fulfilling my responsibilities for the ministry, I have relied, as necessary, on the executives of the
                          individual entities within the ministry.



                          Original signed by

                          Rod Skura
                          Deputy Minister of Advanced Education
                          June 6, 2018

---PDF PAGE 9---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                         Results Analysis                                           5







                       Results Analysis
                          Ministry Overview                                                                                                   6
                          Discussion and Analysis of Results
                            Outcome One                                                                                                       9
                            Outcome Two                                                                                                     27
                            Outcome Three                                                                                                   37
                            Other Initiatives                                                                                               44
                          Update on Risks to Achieving Outcomes                                                                             48
                          Financial Highlights                                                                                              50

---PDF PAGE 10---
6                                                  Results Analysis                                                Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                          Ministry Overview

                          Advanced Education aligned its services under three outcomes in 2017-18:

                            Outcome              Adult learning opportunities are accessible and affordable for all Albertans
                            One


                            Outcome              High-quality education, training and research make a positive contribution to
                            Two                  Alberta’s economy, society, culture and environment


                            Outcome              The adult learning system is accountable and coordinated
                            Three

                          The Government of Alberta is committed to the creation of an economy that benefits both current and
                          future generations.  We are preparing Albertans for success in a new, diversified and technology-driven
                          economy and we know that investing in education and training programs that build a strong, skilled and
                          adaptable workforce will support economic diversification and increase competitiveness.
                          Advanced Education provides the affordable and accessible education and training opportunities
                          Albertans need to prepare them for good jobs in a diversified economy.  Through our investments in
                          people, infrastructure and research capacity across the adult learning system, the post-secondary sector
                          helps drive job creation, the development of skilled workers, as well as inspiring innovation.  With these
                          investments, we are creating an environment where ideas and creativity can grow, where innovation is
                          supported, and quality research and learning opportunities are encouraged.
                          Three divisions within the ministry carry out the work of the department:
                              Advanced Learning and                           Apprenticeship and                               Strategic and
                             Community Partnerships                                Student Aid                             Corporate Services

                           The division works closely with              The division provides                       The division leads and
                           post-secondary institutions,                 leadership in the development               integrates key ministry-wide
                           private post-secondary                       of skilled professionals through            strategic and corporate
                           providers and community                      the implementation,                         functions including finance,
                           learning providers to support                administration and monitoring               strategic policy and planning,
                           adult learners, provide learning             of apprenticeship education                 governance and legislation, and
                           opportunities and enhance the                programs.  Registers                        cross-ministry and
                           adult learning system.                       apprentices and issues                      intergovernmental strategies.
                           Advanced Learning and                        credentials, and directly                   The division facilitates a
                           Community Partnerships                       supports apprentices by                     coordinated approach to
                           provides funding to post-                    funding technical training.  The            governance, risk management,
                           secondary institutions and                   division provides student                   policy development, and
                           community learning providers,                financial supports, including               strategic planning and resource
                           approves programs of study,                  loans, grants, scholarships and             allocation for the department.
                           licenses and certifies private               awards, and supports adult                  The division fosters a forward-
                           career colleges, and creates                 Albertans participating in                  thinking and service-oriented
                           awareness of and encourages                  foundational learning programs              culture focused on partnerships
                           participation in post-secondary              such as pre-apprenticeship,                 through cross-ministry and
                           education.  The division also                academic upgrading and                      cross-government systemic
                           supports policy, legislation and             English as a second language.               approaches to opportunities
                           governance related to the post-                                                          and risk.
                           secondary sector.

---PDF PAGE 11---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                 7

                          Department Organization

                                                                                       Minister



                                                                                  Deputy Minister



                                                          Communications                                 Human Resources



                                                                 Legal



                                Advanced Learning and                           Apprenticeship and                               Strategic and
                                Community Partnerships                               Student Aid                             Corporate Services


                                          Operations                            Policy and Standards                           Corporate Services


                                     External Relations                             Operations and                             Cross Ministry and
                                                                                  Client Connections                    Intergovernmental Strategies

                                      Campus Alberta                                  Student Aid                             Strategic Policy and
                                                                                                                                     Planning

                                                                               Foundational Learning                            Information and
                                                                                        Supports                          Technology Management



                          The ministry collaborates with learning providers, advisory boards, councils and authorities to fulfill its
                          mandate.

                          Advisory Boards, Councils and Authorities
                             Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training Board
                             Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer *
                             Campus Alberta Quality Council

                             * Under review as part of the Government of Alberta’s review of agencies, boards and commissions.

---PDF PAGE 12---
8                                                   Results Analysis                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                          Entities included in Ministry Financial Statements

                          Ministry                                                                 Ministry of Advanced Education
                             Department                                                            Department of Advanced Education
                             Fund                                                                  Access to the Future Fund
                             Public Post-Secondary Institutions
                               Comprehensive Academic Research Institutions                        Athabasca University
                                                                                                   University of Alberta
                                                                                                   University of Calgary
                                                                                                   University of Lethbridge
                               Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions                      MacEwan University
                                                                                                   Mount Royal University
                               Polytechnical Institutions                                          Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
                                                                                                   Southern Alberta Institute of Technology
                               Comprehensive Community Institutions                                Bow Valley College
                                                                                                   Grande Prairie Regional College
                                                                                                   Keyano College
                                                                                                   Lakeland College
                                                                                                   Lethbridge College
                                                                                                   Medicine Hat College
                                                                                                   NorQuest College
                                                                                                   Northern Lakes College
                                                                                                   Olds College
                                                                                                   Portage College
                                                                                                   Red Deer College
                               Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions                           Alberta College of Art + Design
                                                                                                   Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity


                          More detailed information on the Ministry of Advanced Education can be found at advancededucation.alberta.ca

---PDF PAGE 13---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                9

                          Discussion and Analysis of Results

                            Outcome               Adult learning opportunities are accessible and affordable for all Albertans
                            One


                          What this Means
                          Advanced Education is committed to working with stakeholders to ensure Albertans have access to a full
                          range of adult learning opportunities across the province.  This is accomplished by meeting the diverse
                          needs of learners, reducing barriers to learning and supporting access for all Albertans to engage in
                          lifelong learning.


                          Senior Management Summary

                          „   The ministry works with adult learning providers and cross-ministry partners to provide Albertans with
                              access to a wide range of affordable learning options, from foundational learning to advanced degrees.
                              This includes supporting the Ministry of Labour and other partner ministries in implementing federal-
                              provincial Labour Market Transfer Agreements to improve access to adult education.

                          „   The tuition freeze for post-secondary education programs was extended for the 2018-19 academic year
                              and will be accompanied by a corresponding backfill payment to publicly funded institutions.  These
                              payments provide compensation for the additional tuition revenue that institutions would otherwise
                              have received.  The ministry is also continuing to review tuition and funding models for all
                              post-secondary institutions and remains committed to ensuring post-secondary education is accessible,
                              sustainable and affordable over the long term.

                          „   To address the diverse needs of Alberta’s post-secondary students, the ministry continued funding for
                              several initiatives and programs, including support for students with special needs, the Learner
                              Pathways Modernization Initiative, Indigenous Student Awards and Apprentice Training Awards.

                          „   Following the province-wide consultations with learners, faculties and post-secondary institutions, the
                              ministry continued its effort to enhance the accessibility of the adult education system.  This included
                              expanding the programming mandate of Red Deer College and Grande Prairie Regional College to
                              pursue the delivery of undergraduate degree programs, introducing new collaboration mandates for
                              each of the six sectors, and providing comprehensive community institutions with more flexibility to
                              serve the needs of their communities.  All changes are pending legislative amendments to the
                              Post-secondary Learning Act.

---PDF PAGE 14---
10                                                  Results Analysis                                                Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Key Strategy 1.1         Enhance Albertans’ access to post-secondary education by improving transitions from high
                          school and adult foundational programming.
                          Foundational learning is the full range of formal and informal learning intended to bring adult learners to
                          the level of high school equivalency.  It includes literacy, essential skills, English as a second language
                          learning, academic upgrading, adult basic education and integrated training.
                          Transition to Advanced Education
                          Responsibility for funding adult foundational learners (except the Community Adult Learning Program,
                          which already resides in Advanced Education) transitioned from the Ministry of Community and Social
                          Services in 2016.  Since the transition, Advanced Education has continued to integrate and align business
                          processes within the ministry.
                          In 2017-18, the ministry began work to integrate program approval processes to streamline and provide
                          clearer direction for post-secondary institutions on which approval process is required.  Bow Valley College,
                          Grande Prairie Regional College and Portage College have all benefitted from this improved process.
                          Foundational Learner Supports and Foundational Learning Grant Agreements
                          Financial support for learners is available for eligible Albertans to attend academic upgrading, adult basic
                          education, English language learning, integrated training and basic skills training.  These programs assist
                          adult Albertans’ transition to post-secondary studies or employment.  Albertans are able to access funding
                          for tuition, books, mandatory fees and monthly living allowances.
                          In 2017-18, Advanced Education initiated Foundational Learning Grant Agreements with 14 public
                          post-secondary institutions that deliver foundational learning.  The grant agreements allowed these
                          post-secondary institutions to receive pre-determined payments for tuition and fees for eligible learners
                          attending approved foundational learning programs at their institution.
                          Administrative efficiencies for both the post-secondary institutions and Advanced Education were created
                          because of the agreements, which allowed the ministry and institutions to better track tuition allocations
                          to ensure the maximum number of learners were able to attend foundational learning programs.  Initial
                          feedback from the post-secondary institutions has been positive and the agreements will continue in
                          2018-19.

                           Program 2017-18                           Learner Caseload
                           Part-Time Learning                                 3,234
                           Full-Time Learning
                              Academic Upgrading                              3,681
                              Training for Work                               1,399
                              English as a Second Language                    2,336
                           Total                                             10,650

                            Source Mobius Database report on learner statistics.
                          Labour Market Transfer Agreements
                          The federal government provides annual funding to Alberta to deliver a range of training and employment
                          programming for Canadians through Labour Market Transfer Agreements.  In March 2018, Alberta, led by
                          the Ministry of Labour, signed new and amended Labour Market Transfer Agreements with the federal
                          government.  The new agreements include greater flexibility for programming and participant eligibility
                          and provide additional funding over the next five years that will provide significant benefits for Albertans
                          and Alberta employers.  The new agreements also focus on collecting an increased number of performance
                          indicators to inform program and service improvements, improve the assessment of outcomes of
                          employment services and programs, and report to Albertans about the successes of labour market
                          programming.

---PDF PAGE 15---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                 11


      Looking Ahead          Alberta offers a strong foundation of programs and services that continue to result in successful
                             outcomes for Albertans.  Building on the existing array of programming, informed by the needs of
                             Albertans and aligned with the provincial government’s priorities, Advanced Education will work
                             collaboratively with partner ministries on the following priorities this fiscal year: economic recovery,
                             serving under-represented groups and getting Albertans back to work while maximizing the funding
                             available through the Labour Market Development Agreements.

                          Community Adult Learning Program
                          The Government of Alberta has supported community-based adult learning across the province since the
                          late 1970s.  In 2017-18, through the Community Adult Learning Program (CALP), Advanced Education
                          allocated more than $17 million to 122 organizations to support the delivery of part-time, non-formal
                          literacy and foundational learning opportunities.
                          CALP-funded organizations support learning opportunities that focus on literacy, numeracy, basic
                          computer skills, foundational life skills, and/or English language learning, whether delivered through a
                          group setting, such as a course or family literacy program, or through one-on-one or small group tutoring.
                          The average annual grant to an organization is approximately $100,000, excluding grants of approximately
                          $3.4 million to two Granting Councils that allocate funds to more than 50 organizations in Edmonton and
                          Calgary to support foundational learning.  For the majority of funded organizations, CALPs are the primary
                          source of funding.  In 2016-17, these organizations dedicated over 130,000 instructional hours to literacy
                          and foundational learning programs in Alberta to support 21,000 unique adult learners who participated in
                          nearly 1,100 learning opportunities.

      Learner Impact         All organizations that receive funding through CALPs report annually to Advanced Education on a
                             series of outputs and outcome measures that demonstrate progress towards CALP’s vision: Changing
                             lives through adult foundational learning in connected communities.  The vision underlines that by
                             accessing learning in a safe and welcoming space and gaining new skills and confidence, learners,
                             many of whom face social and/or economic barriers and have had negative experiences in the formal
                             education system, are able to independently improve their lives through further learning, employment
                             and/or full participation in society.
                             With the $900,000 increase from the ministry’s 2017 budget, CALP-funded organizations have been
                             building significantly higher capacity to coordinate with partners, including post-secondary
                             institutions, to increase access to foundational programming, particularly for under-represented,
                             highly vulnerable populations, and to deliver higher quality programming, including learning
                             opportunities that are of sufficient duration and intensity to meet learner needs.
                             Data collected for 2016-17 demonstrates the following themes:
                                   Increased confidence                            Skills are used                         Barriers are reduced
                                                         87%                                         86%                                 67%
                             Learners demonstrated                       Organizations reported that                 Learners had a social or
                             increased self-confidence                   learners practiced and used                 economic barrier to learning
                             because of foundational                     skills learned in foundational              that was addressed by reducing
                             learning opportunities.                     learning programs.                          course fees, providing childcare,
                                                                                                                     and/or subsidizing or providing
                                                                                                                     transportation.
                             CALP-funded organizations provide a favorable environment for some of the most vulnerable learners
                             to take a first step on a learning journey that leads to increased confidence, and developing an identity
                             as a learner so that they are empowered to persevere in learning.  This first step is instrumental in
                             changing individual lives.

---PDF PAGE 16---
12                                                  Results Analysis                                               Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                          Community Adult Learning Programs and Indigenous Learners
                          The Community Adult Learning Program (CALP) seeks to build on and forge partnerships with Indigenous
                          communities founded on principles of trust, openness and respect, in order to improve Indigenous learner
                          access and success in the learning system.
                          Many CALP-funded organizations have a history of partnership with Indigenous communities.  Advanced
                          Education and the Ministry of Indigenous Relations have a fifty-fifty cost-sharing partnership to provide
                          community adult learning programming in seven of the eight Métis settlements, which are involved in the
                          Long-Term Governance Agreement with the Government of Alberta.  This partnership expands access to
                          part-time, non-formal adult foundational learning to ensure that Indigenous peoples living in Métis
                          settlements have access to learning opportunities that will support their transitions to further learning,
                          including post-secondary and/or employment.
                          Advanced Education supports the continued success of CALP-funded organizations who serve Indigenous
                          learners by investing in a number of professional development initiatives to support their staff and/or
                          volunteers.  For example, Advanced Education invests in a dedicated Indigenous Liaison position to provide
                          mentorship/coaching and one-on-one support to their staff and volunteers, and facilitate customized
                          workshops designed to meet needs identified by staff in the settlements.

       Did You Know?        Each year, through the Community Adult Learning Program, Advanced Education makes significant
                            investments to address the professional development needs of staff and volunteers of funded
                            organizations.  In 2016-17, the department provided one-time professional development project
                            funding to University nuhelot’įne thaiyots’į nistameyimâkanak Blue Quills and to the Calgary Learns
                            Association.  This funding was used to help organizations develop an awareness of historical relations
                            between Indigenous peoples and the rest of Canada and facilitate an understanding of how
                            intergenerational trauma affects Indigenous adult learners in many aspects of their lives, including
                            their learning journeys.  These professional development projects were developed and delivered using
                            Indigenous Learning Principles, which create a welcoming and accessible learning environment within
                            funded organizations to allow them to better address the education needs of Indigenous peoples in
                            the community.

                          High School Transitions Module and Support for Dual Credit
                          The Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer completed key work for the Learner Pathways
                          Modernization Initiative to develop more tools and supports for the new Alberta Learner Pathways System
                          (see Key Strategy 3.4).  One aspect of this work was the development and completion, in March 2018, of a
                          new High School Transitions module for high school transitions course agreements, including dual credit.
                          This module was created in collaboration with stakeholders, the Alberta Council on Admissions and
                          Transfer Dual Credit Articulation Committee, Advanced Education, the Ministry of Education and the
                          Ministry of Labour.  Updates were also completed to the Transfer Alberta search tool and mobile app to
                          share high school transitions course agreements data for high school students seeking to gain
                          simultaneous credit for high school, post-secondary, and/or business and industry courses and
                          experiences.
                          The tools have several new features, for example:

                          „   Students can now access data and information for high school transitions agreements for courses
                              offered in Alberta through a single accessible source on the Transfer Alberta search tool and mobile app.

                          „   School authorities can now share information and plan with their post-secondary and business/industry
                              partners and manage their high school transitions course agreements, including dual credit.

---PDF PAGE 17---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                13


                          Helping school authorities manage their high school information is part of the work Advanced Education
                          has undertaken to support the Ministry of Education in their leadership of the Provincial Dual Credit
                          Strategy.  In 2017-18, the Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer and Advanced Education also
                          supported the Ministry of Education’s development of the new provincial Alberta Dual Credit Framework
                          and Dual Credit Implementation Guide.  This work included supporting students’ access to dual credit
                          opportunities by allowing K-12 school authorities to use authorized post-secondary programming,
                          requiring school authorities to confirm that students can get transfer credit for applicable dual credit
                          courses, and tracking applicable dual credit courses on high school students’ transcripts.
                          Inter-ministry collaboration to support learner pathways and student access to information regarding dual
                          credit and other high school transitions pathways is a continuous and ongoing process.
                          Learning Clicks

       Did You Know?         The ministry runs a peer based motivational post-secondary planning program that helps students in
                             Grades 4 to 12, parents and teachers learn about post-secondary education—what it is, why it’s
                             important and how to plan for it.
                             Learning Clicks is a public awareness program that makes a difference in the lives of students by
                             connecting them with information and resources to help them transition into and become successful
                             in post-secondary education.  Learning Clicks Ambassadors, who are current post-secondary students,
                             deliver motivational education planning presentations across the province to encourage youth to
                             reach their potential through post-secondary education.  Presentations cover topics such as program
                             planning, unique pathways, student aid funding, scholarships, apprenticeships, transferring and
                             student life.

                          In 2017-18, Learning Clicks Ambassadors presented to more than 23,000 students across the province and
                          provided post-secondary planning information to an additional 3,000 Albertans at exhibit booths.
                          Learning Clicks has also expanded beyond the K-12 system, to include community outreach organizations
                          that serve at-risk youth.  This expansion has allowed the program to share invaluable education planning
                          information with youth, who in many cases, felt post-secondary education was not an option for them.
                          At the end of every presentation, participants are asked to fill out an online survey.  Highlights from the
                          2017-18 surveys are:
                                     Increased knowledge of options                             Motivated to attend post-secondary education
                                                                                 98%                                                                 97%

                           Students agreed that the presentation increased                      Students felt motivated to attend
                           their knowledge and understanding of their                           post-secondary education after the presentation.
                           post-secondary options.
                          Learning Clicks Indigenous Presentations
                          The Learning Clicks program includes an Indigenous outreach component which employs some
                          Indigenous post-secondary students to provide presentations within First Nations, Inuit and Métis
                          communities across the province.  In 2017-18, Ambassadors provided 80 presentations within Indigenous
                          communities, including remote communities such as Fort Chipewyan where three days were spent
                          presenting to all the students in the community.

      Student Impact         An Indigenous Learning Clicks Ambassador who grew up on the Kainai First Nations Reserve now
                             returns to her home community to provide Learning Clicks presentations.  She talks to students about
                             her personal experience graduating on the reserve, going to Lethbridge to pursue accounting and the
                             challenges she faced along the way.  Months after giving her first presentation on the reserve, she
                             returned home for a cultural event.  One of the students who attended that first presentation
                             approached her to say thanks and let her know that they were about to drop out of high school, but
                             that her visit and presentation inspired them to continue with their education and they have now
                             applied to post-secondary.

---PDF PAGE 18---
14                                                 Results Analysis                                                Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Key Strategy 1.2         Ensure the effectiveness of programs to assist apprentices to progress in their training.
                          Alberta’s apprenticeship and industry training system is designed to develop and certify highly
                          knowledgeable journeypersons with skills aligned with labour market and industry needs.

       Did You Know?        Alberta develops and recognizes apprenticeship programs to certify students in over 50 designated
                            trades and occupations.  Apprenticeship education is also offered at some organizations outside of the
                            post-secondary system, including some high schools through the Registered Apprenticeship Program,
                            and Career and Technology Studies, as well as community organizations and employers and
                            union-based facilities.
                            Approximately 80 per cent of an apprentice’s education is completed on the job and is provided
                            through an employer under the guidance of a certified journeyperson or qualified individual.  The
                            other 20 per cent of their education is completed through formal instruction provided at or through an
                            educational provider.

                          Apprentice Training Award
                          The Apprentice Training Award is a $1,000 financial incentive that supports registered apprentices who are
                          unemployed to continue their technical training and progress towards their journeyperson certification.
                          In 2017-18, approximately $3.1 million was awarded to approximately 3,200 apprentices through the
                          Apprentice Training Award.
                          Apprenticeship Funding
                          To support technical training delivery, the ministry contributed approximately $55.4 million to Alberta’s
                          technical training providers in 2017-18.  This funding is used to fund seats, equipment, leases and other
                          programming costs to supplement funding provided to publicly funded institutions through the Campus
                          Alberta Grant.
                          Total and New Apprentices Registered
                          The ministry continues to encourage Albertans to consider pursuing an apprenticeship program and to
                          support current apprentices to continue and complete their program.
                          As of December 2017, there were over 50,600 registered apprentices, including over 12,600 new
                          apprentices, and over 10,200 individuals were certified.  This includes completed apprentices and
                          individuals issued occupation and qualification certificates.  Since the program’s inception, more than
                          5,000 individuals who participated in the Registered Apprenticeship Program have gone on to complete
                          their program and become certified journeypersons.
                          Apprenticeship Satisfaction
                          Advanced Education surveys apprentices to ensure programs are effective at helping them progress
                          through their program.  Results from the 2018 Apprenticeship Graduate Outcomes Survey indicate the vast
                          majority of 2016-17 graduates were satisfied with:
                                  On-the-job training                           Technical training                      Experience with program
                                                        89%                                           93%                                         90%
                           The overall quality of their                 The overall quality of their                Their experience with the
                           on-the-job training.                         technical training.                         apprenticeship program—
                                                                                                                    90 per cent stated they would
                                                                                                                    still have chosen to become an
                                                                                                                    apprentice.

---PDF PAGE 19---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                15


 Key Strategy 1.3         Collaborate with Alberta’s Indigenous peoples and adult learning providers to improve
                          Indigenous educational outcomes.
                          The focus of this strategy aligns with the ministry’s work with the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of
                          Indigenous Peoples and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada Calls to Action.  These
                          foundational documents guide ministry activities and initiatives towards the protection of the individual
                          and collective rights of Indigenous peoples to ensure they can participate as equals in all aspects of
                          Alberta’s society while maintaining their cultures and unique identities.
                          Post-secondary institutions have a fundamental role to play in moving forward with reconciliation as
                          universities and colleges produce future influential teachers, lawyers, doctors, public servants, journalists
                          and other trained professionals.
                          Indigenous Adult Learner Engagement
                          To help develop a comprehensive Indigenous adult learner action plan, Advanced Education has engaged
                          with First Nations Colleges, public post-secondary institutions, Indigenous student leaders, Indigenous
                          adult learning providers, and Indigenous organizations and communities.  At each engagement session
                          groups have been asked what success for Indigenous adult learners could look like and have provided their
                          input into existing wrap-around and support services for post-secondary education and training-to-
                          employment programs.
                          To date, engagement milestones include a meeting with First Nations Colleges in October 2017, which
                          demonstrated a sign of trust in the engagement and policy development for Indigenous adult learners.  In
                          addition, a meeting with Indigenous student leaders in November 2017 marked the first time that
                          Advanced Education specifically engaged with this group of adult learners.  This was also the first time that
                          the department brought together adult learners from public post-secondary institutions and First Nations
                          Colleges.

      Looking Ahead          Advanced Education will begin finalizing the initial phase of engagement in June 2018 and will look at
                             developing a comprehensive Indigenous adult learner action plan based on the findings.

                          First Nations College Grant
                          First Nations Colleges deliver an educational experience while fostering First Nations culture and traditions.
                          The ministry continued to provide the First Nations College Grant to five First Nations Colleges in the
                          province.  In 2017-18, each college received $640,000, including $200,000 to be used to support
                          foundational learning.  In addition, each First Nations College received a one-time foundational learning
                          grant in the amount of $55,000 to be used to further support foundational learning initiatives in the
                          Colleges.
                          Indigenous Initiatives Grants
                          In 2017-18, Advanced Education began collaborating with Indigenous adult learning providers beyond
                          First Nations Colleges.  The ministry reconstituted its funding relationship with the Nechi Institute: Centre
                          for Indigenous Learning and provided them with funding to develop curriculum for their addictions
                          diploma and certificate programming.  Advanced Education also began collaborating with the Riel Institute
                          for Education and Learning for the first time in 2017-18, providing them with an $80,000 one-time
                          Foundational Learning Grant to help support foundational learning programming.  Lastly, Advanced
                          Education provided Maskwacis Cultural College with a one-time grant of $95,000 to develop a student
                          database compatible with Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer program.
                          Indigenous Student Awards
                          Advanced Education continued to help prepare Indigenous post-secondary students for success.  In
                          2017-18, $7 million in Indigenous Awards were available to First Nations, Métis, and Inuit students.  Eligible
                          undergraduate students may receive up to $4,000 per year and eligible graduate students may receive up
                          to $15,000.  In the 2017-18 academic year, over 1,400 students received an award.

---PDF PAGE 20---
16                                                         Results Analysis                                                        Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                             Self-Identified Indigenous Student Enrolment
                             Advanced Education collaborated with the Ministry of Indigenous Relations, the Ministry of Labour and the
                             Ministry of Community and Social Services to increase the number of Indigenous learners participating in
                             adult learning and achieving program learning outcomes.  Between the 2015-16 and 2016-17 academic
                             years, the number of students identifying as Indigenous at publicly funded post-secondary institutions
                             increased by 9 per cent, compared to the average annual growth rate of 5.6 per cent since 2004-05.

                             Indigenous Student Enrolment
                                        Enrolment Headcount                                                                      % of Student Population
                                12,000                                                                                                                           12%
                                11,000                                                                                                                11,645     11%

                                10,000                                                                10,609      10,280      10,405      10,683                 10%
                                                                               9,886      10,101
                                 9,000                                                                                                                           9%

                                 8,000                 8,355       8,253                                                                                         8%

                                 7,000     7,513                                                                                                                 7%

                                 6,000                                                                                                                           6%

                                 5,000                                                                                                                 4.4%      5%
                                 4,000                                         3.7%        3.8%        3.9%        3.9%        4.0%        4.0%                  4%
                                           3.0%        3.2%        3.1%
                                 3,000                                                                                                                           3%

                                 2,000                                                                                                                           2%

                                 1,000                                                                                                                           1%


                                          2007-08     2008-09     2009-10     2010-11     2011-12     2012-13     2013-14     2014-15    2015-16     2016-17

                                 Note   Results of this indicator are based on learners’ self-identification as Indigenous and therefore may not represent all Indigenous learners in
                                        the adult learning system.  Results also do not include Indigenous learners attending First Nations Colleges, private career colleges,
                                        foundational learning programs, and apprentices taking technical training from private providers or participating in on-the-job training.

---PDF PAGE 21---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                    Results Analysis                                                 17


 Key Strategy 1.4          Provide stable and predictable funding to the post-secondary system.
                           Post-Secondary Funding
                           Government is committed to providing stable and predictable funding for the post-secondary system.  For
                           the fourth year in a row, the government increased Campus Alberta Grants for all post-secondary
                           institutions by 2 per cent in 2017-18, as well as providing additional top up funding to support the tuition
                           freeze.
                           In 2017-18, the ministry provided over $2.3 billion in operating funding to publicly funded post-secondary
                           institutions to ensure a solid foundation for Alberta’s advanced learning providers.  The major components
                           of funding provided by Advanced Education were:

                            Funding                                 Amount        Description
                            Campus Alberta Grant                   $2,173.0M      Supports the delivery of approved credit programs, including
                                                                                  apprenticeship programs and other programs that are designated
                                                                                  for student financial assistance.
                            Apprenticeship Technical                   $55.4M     Supports the provision of apprenticeship technical training at
                            Training Grant                                        Alberta’s 11 post-secondary institutions to supplement the Campus
                                                                                  Alberta Grant.
                            Targeted Enrolment Funding                 $51.2M     Increases learner access to a range of high-demand programs in
                                                                                  fields such as engineering, occupational and physical therapy, and
                                                                                  early learning and child care.
                            Health Workforce Action Plan               $13.8M     Supports expanded health education program delivery for specified
                                                                                  health professions forecast to be facing shortages.
                            Supports for Students with                 $11.2M     Enhances a post-secondary institution’s capacity to accommodate
                            Disabilities                                          students with disabilities.

                           Campus Alberta Grant
                           The Campus Alberta Grant provides operating funding to the province’s 26 publicly funded post-secondary
                           institutions and allows for the delivery of a broad spectrum of formal learning opportunities.  This funding
                           helps to remove barriers so that Albertans can reach their full potential, and advances Alberta’s social and
                           economic prosperity.
                           Through the grant, post-secondary institutions provide quality programming as measured by self-reported
                           student satisfaction.  Results from the 2016 Alberta Graduate Outcomes Survey indicate the vast majority
                           of 2013-14 graduates were satisfied:
                                           Overall                                Quality of teaching                           Quality of program
                                                           92%                                           91%                                          90%

                            Overall satisfaction.                         With the quality of teaching in               With the quality of their
                                                                          their program.                                program.
                           The grant enables post-secondary institutions to produce approximately 50,000 graduates annually in
                           many fields, many of whom then enter the workforce.  When surveyed in 2016, graduates from 2013-14
                           had an employment rate of 92 per cent.
                           Apprentice Technical Training Grant
                           The Apprentice Technical Training Grant supports the provision of apprenticeship technical training at 11
                           publicly funded post-secondary institutions and two private institutions in Alberta.  The grant is provided
                           to post-secondary institutions in addition to the Campus Alberta Grant.

---PDF PAGE 22---
18                                                     Results Analysis                                                     Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Key Strategy 1.5           Enhance affordability by reviewing post-secondary system resourcing, tuition and fees.
                            Affordable post-secondary education is important to Albertans and is key to a growing economy.
                            Government has ensured affordable access to post-secondary education by keeping tuition costs frozen,
                            and continuing their work with stakeholders to review the tuition and fees model.
                            As a result of these efforts, the average tuition for an undergraduate student in Alberta was over $800
                            lower than the national average in the 2017-18 academic year.  Similarly, the average tuition for a graduate
                            student in Alberta was over $1,200 lower than the national average.

                            Average Tuition by Year and Level of Study
                                                 Alberta                 Canada
                               $7,000
                                                                                 $6,571                                             $6,784     $6,907
                               $6,000                                 $6,375
                               $5,000    $5,742      $5,749                                            $5,655      $5,655


                               $4,000

                               $3,000

                               $2,000

                               $1,000


                                         2016-17    2017-18          2016-17    2017-18                2016-17    2017-18          2016-17    2017-18
                                               Alberta                     Canada                            Alberta                     Canada
                                                         Undergraduate                                                    Graduate

                             Source   Statistics Canada, CANSIM Table 477-0077 – Canadian and international tuition and fees by level of study, annual (dollars).
                               Note   Data for 2017-18 is preliminary.  National and provincial tuition fee averages are weighted with the latest enrolment data (2014).  This
                                      data does not take into account financial assistance or tax rebates provided to students.
                            Tuition Freeze Extended
                            Government is working to make life more affordable for everyday Albertans.  As part of that commitment,
                            government again extended the tuition freeze through the 2017-18 and 2018-19 academic years.  This is
                            the fourth year in a row of frozen tuition for post-secondary students, and ensures that students have the
                            predictable and affordable education they deserve.  Thanks to the freeze, students are saving on average
                            $1,500 over the course of their degree.
                            Tuition and Fees Review
                            The tuition and fees review will help provide guidance to institutions on how to set tuition and fees in a fair
                            and transparent manner while also providing students with predictability so they can plan for their
                            education.
                            In 2016-17, the ministry established an external stakeholder advisory group to provide perspectives and
                            advice on potential policy solutions for moving forward.  This group included student, institutional,
                            apprenticeship and government representatives.  In addition to tuition, the consultation process included
                            discussions around related topics, including mandatory non-instructional fees, international student
                            tuition and apprenticeship tuition.

---PDF PAGE 23---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                      Results Analysis                                                   19


 Key Strategy 1.6          Improve the responsiveness of student financial supports to help Albertans benefit from adult
                           learning opportunities.
                           Advanced Education provides a variety of funding supports for post-secondary learners that allow
                           Albertans equitable access to adult learning opportunities regardless of financial circumstances:

                           „   Student loans are available to reduce financial barriers and help post-secondary students cover basic
                               learning and living costs.

                           „   Grants are available to Alberta student loan borrowers, including low-income students, those caring for
                               children, students with disabilities and part-time students.

                           „   Scholarships are provided to learners who demonstrate academic excellence.

                           „   Awards are provided to Alberta students to encourage access and participation in adult learning
                               opportunities and reward students for leadership, athletics and community engagement.
                           Scholarships and Awards
                           Total funding increased between 2014-15 and 2017-18.  In 2014-15, 38,956 students received a total of
                           $73.5 million in funding, compared to 51,315 students in 2017-18 who received a total of $95 million in
                           funding.

     Alberta Scholarship and Award Funding
                Scholarship and Award Recipients                                                                Total Scholarship and Award Funding
       100,000                                                                                                                                               $100M
        90,000                                                                                                                      $95.6M        $95.0M     $90M
                                                                                                                       $89.5M          $
        80,000                                                                                                                                       $       $80M
                                                                                                                         $
        70,000        $70.1M        $71.4M        $69.7M       $69.9M        $73.8M        $72.9M        $73.5M                                              $70M

        60,000          $             $             $             $             $            $             $                                                 $60M

        50,000                                                                                                     51,972        54,500       51,315         $50M

        40,000                                                                                                                                               $40M
                                              36,344        36,962       38,515        37,821        38,956
        30,000    34,417        34,269                                                                                                                       $30M

        20,000                                                                                                                                               $20M

        10,000                                                                                                                                               $10M


                    2008-09       2009-10      2010-11       2011-12       2012-13       2013-14       2014-15      2015-16       2016-17       2017-18

       Source  Advanced Education.
        Note   Scholarship and award numbers from 2014-15 forward were based on the ministry’s audited financial statements.  Numbers prior to 2014-15 were based on
               reports from Alberta’s student finance system and may not be entirely comparable.
                           Loans and Grants
                           Since 2012, Advanced Education has been making student funding more widely available to eligible
                           Albertans.  Earnings, savings, family income, RRSPs, scholarships and awards are no longer used to
                           determine eligibility for loans and grants, and because of this, more students are able to access funding
                           needed to help them cover learning and living costs.
                           Alberta student loan borrowers benefit from flexible repayment options, and student loans are
                           interest-free during a student’s studies, as well as for six months after the borrower leaves studies.  After
                           the six-month interest-free period, the interest on their Alberta student loans is charged at the prime
                           lending rate.
                           Alberta student loan borrowers have historically repaid their student loans at a high rate.  More than
                           90 per cent of Alberta student loan dollars issued last year are expected to be repaid by borrowers.  In the
                           recent Student Aid Loan Manageability Survey, 93 per cent of Alberta student loan borrowers surveyed
                           agreed that they would be able to repay their student loans.

---PDF PAGE 24---
20                                                         Results Analysis                                                         Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018



                              Number of Alberta Loans and Grants
                                           Alberta Student Loans Approved                                Alberta Grants Approved
                                 90,000

                                 80,000                                                                                               83,688
                                                                                                                       78,994
                                 70,000
                                                                                                        68,613
                                 60,000                                                  59,964
                                 50,000                    55,961         57,935
                                            51,083
                                 40,000

                                 30,000                                                      30,729
                                 20,000                                       27,275

                                                                                                            16,042         17,585         18,187
                                 10,000                        11,227
                                                 3,892
                                              2011-12        2012-13        2013-14        2014-15        2015-16        2016-17        2017-18

                               Source   Advanced Education.
                                 Note   The graph above shows the number of loans and grants approved, not the number of unique students who benefited.

                              Alberta student loans and grants are responsive to demand.  Between 2016-17 and 2017-18, the number of
                              loans disbursed increased from 78,994 to 83,688; additionally, the number of grants increased from 17,585
                              to 18,187.

                              Loan and Grant Funding (Provincial and Federal)
                               $1,400M                Federal Grant Funding

                               $1,300M                Federal Loan Funding
                               $1,200M                Provincial Grant Funding                                                                           163.1

                               $1,100M                Provincial Loan Funding                                                                118.7


                               $1,000M
                                 $900M                                                                                           80.7                    474.1
                                                                                                                                             340.0
                                 $800M                                                                               75.0
                                 $700M                                                       74.7        73.0                    310.0
                                                                                                                                             50.5        53.4
                                 $600M                                           75.8                                284.1
                                                                     43.8                    276.8       272.9                   43.5
                                 $500M                   64.4
                                 $400M                               258.5       281.2                   52.5        74.7
                                             12.1        219.0                               45.2
                                 $300M                                                                                                       654.5       617.7
                                             197.7                   26.1        18.9                                            536.8
                                 $200M                   69.0                                351.3       376.9       395.9
                                             53.6                    265.8       275.7
                                 $100M                   169.3
                                             120.3

                                           2008-09     2009-10     2010-11     2011-12     2012-13     2013-14     2014-15     2015-16     2016-17     2017-18

                               Source   Advanced Education.
                                 Note   Provincial student loan and grant numbers from 2014-15 forward were based on the ministry’s audited financial statements.  Numbers
                                        prior to 2014-15 were based on reports from Alberta’s student finance system and may not be entirely comparable.

                              In 2017-18, Advanced Education provided $617.7 million in Alberta student loans to support 83,688
                              student loan borrowers, and provided $53.4 million in grants to support 18,187 students.  In addition, in
                              2017-18, the federal government delivered $474.1 million in federal loans to 78,790 Alberta students, and
                              $163.1 million in federal grants to support 57,636 Alberta students.

---PDF PAGE 25---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                    Results Analysis                                                 21


                          Improving Access for Learners
                          Supporting the ministry’s efforts to both increase accessibility and to reduce the use of paper, the
                          Extended Access for Learners initiative ensures learners have secure access to Alberta’s Students Finance
                          System easier and earlier.  Through the Extended Access for Learners initiative, learners are no longer
                          required to have high school marks, previous cashed loan certificates or an approved Master Student
                          Financial Assistance number to access their information.
                          Canada Part-Time Grant

      Looking Ahead          For 2018-19, the federal government is implementing several policy changes to the Canada Part-time
                             Grant that will increase access to funding for part-time students.  Potentially 30 per cent more students
                             could be eligible, resulting in an estimated 4,100 funded part-time students in 2018-19 compared to
                             3,200 this year.  This estimate includes low- and middle-income students.

                          Policy changes to the Canada Part-time Grant include:

                          „   a shift to higher income thresholds resulting in expanded eligibility for low- and middle-income
                               students,

                          „   a shift from a flat rate grant to a sliding scale grant with grant eligibility decreasing as family income
                               increases,

                          „   full grant funding provided on the first application for loan year regardless of study period length, and

                          „   the use of estimated reduced family income to determine grant eligibility, as opposed to previous year’s
                               income.
                          In addition to implementing and administering the new changes to the Canada Part-time Grant, Advanced
                          Education will gap-fill the federal program.  This includes continuing to provide the Alberta Part-Time
                          Student Grant to students in programs not eligible for federal funding and providing the grant during the
                          third semester when students have already received the maximum Canada Part-time Grant.

---PDF PAGE 26---
22                                                        Results Analysis                                                        Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


   Performance               Percentage of students entering post-secondary programs (including apprenticeship) within ten
      Measure                years of entering Grade 10
          1.a                  100%

                                90%

                                80%

                                70%       70%                                           70%+
                                                     69%         69%         68%
                                60%

                                50%

                                40%

                                30%

                                20%

                                10%


                                        2013-14     2014-15    2015-16     2016-17      Target

                              Sources  Provincial Approach to Student Information (PASI), Alberta Education.  Learner Enrolment and Reporting System (LERS), Advanced
                                       Education.  Apprenticeship, Trade and Occupation Management System (ATOMS), Advanced Education.  Annual Demographic Estimates
                                       and Census, Statistics Canada.  Students Finance System (SFS), Advanced Education.

Description                                                                                significant impact on one’s decision to enter post-secondary
This measure describes the percentage of students attending                                education.  According to Statistics Canada, students who lived with
post-secondary programs in Alberta within ten years of entering                            both parents when they were in high school had higher
Grade 10 for the first time.  It tracks the transition rate of students                    participation rates in university than students living in a single
moving from high school to post-secondary programs, recognizing                            parent family or in another type of family structure.  Parents’
that some may not pursue a post-secondary education immediately                            educational attainment is also a strong driver.  Parents who had
after finishing their high school.  It includes students who are                           post-secondary education or consider post-secondary education
registered in a wide variety of post-secondary level programs at                           important have a positive impact on their children’s post-secondary
Alberta’s post-secondary institutions, including those who are                             participation.
registered in an apprenticeship program.  The results are also                             Advanced Education supports and implements a number of
adjusted by an estimate of Alberta students attending                                      initiatives directed at enhancing the accessibility and affordability of
post-secondary institutions out of province, as well as the estimate                       post-secondary education.  These initiatives include raising
of attrition that accounts for the number of students who leave                            awareness of adult learning opportunities, providing stable and
Alberta or die after their start of Grade 10.                                              predictable funding for post-secondary institutions, facilitating
This measure (transition rate within ten years) was developed based                        learners’ mobility through mechanisms such as the Alberta Transfer
on a similar measure (transition rate within six years) in Alberta                         System, and addressing financial barriers by regulating tuition and
Education’s business plan.  It demonstrates Advanced Education’s                           continuing to provide a suite of student aid programming including
commitment to supporting high school students transitioning into                           loans, grants, scholarships and awards.  To increase support for high
post-secondary education.                                                                  school transitions to post-secondary education, the ministry
Results Analysis                                                                           completed the development of a new High School Transitions
                                                                                           Module for school authorities and their post-secondary, business
In 2016-17, 68 per cent of students attended post-secondary                                and industry partners.  Advanced Education also supported Alberta
programs (including apprenticeship) within ten years of entering                           Education’s development of the new Alberta Dual Credit Framework
Grade 10.  This result did not meet the target of 70 per cent plus and                     and Dual Credit Implementation Guide.
was one percentage point lower than the year before.  Between                              Notes
2013-14 and 2016-17, the transition rate was generally consistent at                       „   Since data in LERS goes back to the 2004-05 academic year, the
about 69 per cent.  Since results are calculated based on estimates                             earliest result available starts from 2013-14.  This result tracks
for some data components, minor changes in results should be                                    students who transitioned from Grade 10 to post-secondary
treated with caution.                                                                           programs within ten years, from 2004-05 to 2013-14.
Students entering post-secondary education can be influenced by a                          „   Current results are not comparable to those published in
variety of factors, for example, whether they complete high school,                             previous business plans and annual reports due to a renewed
choose to enter the labour market when job opportunities arise,                                 methodology.
and whether they want to take some time off and think about what
they want to do in the future.  Additionally, family may have a

---PDF PAGE 27---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                            Results Analysis                                                       23


   Performance               Percentage of recent post-secondary graduates who state that their program was worth the
      Measure                financial cost (biennial survey)
          1.b                  100%

                                90%
                                80%      86%         87%         86%        86%         83%         85%


                                70%

                                60%

                                50%

                                40%

                                30%

                                20%

                                10%


                                         2008        2010       2012        2014        2016       Target

                              Source   Graduate Outcomes Survey, Advanced Education.

Description                                                                               Advanced Education is committed to reducing financial barriers
This measure demonstrates recent graduates’ perception of the                             both for students in post-secondary education and for those in
financial costs associated with the post-secondary program that                           repayment.  In 2017-18, the ministry provided $617.7 million in
they took compared to the financial and non-financial benefits                            Alberta student loans to over 83,600 students.  Student aid was also
gained from their post-secondary education.  It includes graduates                        provided in the form of grants ($53.4 million to support more than
from 25 publicly funded post-secondary institutions in Alberta.  The                      18,100 student loan borrowers), scholarships and awards through
results of this measure may reflect graduates’ perception of                              the Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund ($50.2 million to support
post-secondary education in many aspects, such as cost of a                               about 26,800 students), and other scholarships and awards
post-secondary program, quality of the program and relevance of                           ($44.8 million to support about 24,500 students).  The ministry also
the program to labour market needs.  As such, this measure helps                          administered student loans and grants from the Canada Student
the ministry understand the cost-effectiveness of Alberta’s post-                         Loan Program, which provided $474.1 million in federal loans to
secondary education from recent graduates’ perspectives.                                  nearly 78,800 Albertan students, and $163.1 million in federal
Results Analysis                                                                          grants to over 57,600 student loan borrowers in Alberta.  Going
                                                                                          forward, the ministry will continue to respond to the demand for
In 2016, 83 per cent of recent post-secondary graduates considered                        student loans and grants.
the program they took was worth the financial cost.  This result did                      Notes
not meet the target of 85 per cent and fell below the results                             „   The results for 2010 and 2014 were slightly different in the
observed over previous reporting cycles.  In 2016, the fields of study                         previous annual report due to reporting errors.
that received the highest agreement rates from post-secondary
graduates that their program was worth the financial cost were                            „   For a more detailed breakdown of results, see Section 4.5 of the
business, education, and health sciences, all at 86 per cent.  The                             Alberta Graduate Outcomes Survey, Class of 2013/2014,
percentage was above 80 per cent across all credential types, and                              Publicly-Funded Institutions Report.
graduates with a master’s degree or diploma had the highest                                    Link  advancededucation.alberta.ca/media/497571/graduate-outcomes-
agreement rates, both at 85 per cent.                                                                survey-class-of-2013-14.pdf
The results of this measure can be impacted by a number of factors.                       „   For more detail on Student Aid information, see Key Strategy 1.6.
For example, the amount of loans, including government-                                   „   See Appendix – Table 1 for the list of publicly funded
sponsored, non-government and family loans, that graduates have                                post-secondary institutions.
impacts their impression of their program’s value.  In 2016, while
86 per cent of those with loans under $5,000 considered that their
program was worth the financial cost, the percentage was
77 per cent among those with loans of $25,000 or more.  Also, the
higher the income graduates earn, the more likely they consider the
program they completed to have been worth the financial cost.

---PDF PAGE 28---
24                                                        Results Analysis                                                         Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Performance                 Total enrolment at publicly funded post-secondary institutions
 Indicator                      300,000
 1.a
                                250,000     262,744        263,100        264,286        264,899


                                200,000


                                150,000


                                100,000


                                 50,000



                                            2013-14        2014-15        2015-16        2016-17

                               Source   Learner and Enrolment Reporting System (LERS), Advanced Education.

Description                                                                                 Total enrolment has increased steadily year over year since 2013-14,
This indicator shows the total number of unique learners enrolled in                        indicating that more students are attending publicly funded
approved programs offered by publicly funded post-secondary                                 post-secondary institutions in Alberta.  More Albertans may choose
institutions in Alberta by academic year.  This also includes                               to pursue a post-secondary education to upgrade their skills at a
apprentices enrolled in the technical training portion of their                             time when Alberta is going through economic transitions.  This may
apprenticeship program at a publicly funded post-secondary                                  have contributed to a minor increase in enrolment.
institution.  This indicator helps the ministry identify shifts in                          Notes
enrolment patterns among students attending Alberta’s publicly                              „   The 2013-14 result has been updated from the figure in the
funded post-secondary institutions.                                                             ministry’s 2017-20 business plan, as the enrolment data from
Results Analysis                                                                                the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity was included up to the
In the 2016-17 academic year, just under 265,000 unique learners                                year of 2013-14 at the time when the 2017-20 business plan was
enrolled in approved programs offered by Alberta’s publicly funded                              developed.
post-secondary institutions.  This is an increase of 613 (or                                „   For a more detailed breakdown of results, see Enrolment by
0.2 per cent) from the result in 2015-16.  In 2016-17, the fields of                            Student Head Count.
study that represented the largest shares of enrolment were                                      Link  advancededucation.alberta.ca/media/534899/enrolment-by-student-
languages, social sciences, arts and humanities (over 30 per cent),                                    headcount.xlsx
followed by trades and technologies, and health sciences (each
constitutes 15 per cent).  The majority (nearly 80 per cent) of
learners enrolled in credential programs, including degree programs
(45 per cent), certificate programs (17 per cent), and diploma
programs (15 per cent).

---PDF PAGE 29---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                             Results Analysis                                                        25


 Performance                 Apprenticeship technical training seats offered
 Indicator                    40,000
 1.b                          35,000
                                                    35,195      35,969      35,042
                              30,000    32,235
                              25,000                                                    28,946


                              20,000

                              15,000

                              10,000

                               5,000


                                        2013-14     2014-15     2015-16     2016-17    2017-18*

                               Source   Apprenticeship, Trade and Occupation Management System (ATOMS), Advanced Education.

Description                                                                                 Alberta’s apprenticeship and industry training system is responsive
Apprenticeship programs in Alberta consist of on-the-job training                           to industry and labour market demand.  Demand for apprenticeship
provided by an employer and technical training provided at a                                technical training is constantly monitored at post-secondary
post-secondary institution.  This indicator shows the number of                             institutions, and the number of technical training seats offered is set
apprenticeship technical training seats offered in a given academic                         and adjusted to align with demand as much as possible.  This
year (August 1 to July 31).  The results include technical training                         practice allows the ministry to efficiently direct funding to where it
seats available at 11 publicly funded post-secondary institutions.                          can provide the greatest value.  Historically, changes in demand for
The results do not include apprenticeship technical training offered                        technical training have lagged behind labour market demand, and
by private institutions, nor do they include on-the-job training                            it can take up to five years to adjust.
provided by employers.  The number of technical training seats                              In 2017-18, Advanced Education awarded $3.1 million to
offered to apprentices is negotiated by the ministry with                                   approximately 3,200 apprentices through the Apprentice Training
educational providers at the start of each academic year based on                           Award.  The ministry also made funding available to community
estimated demand and is adjusted during the year as required.                               organizations and union training providers that demonstrate
Results Analysis                                                                            expertise in delivering foundational apprenticeship programs and
In 2017-18, 28,946 technical training seats were offered to                                 connect participants with prospective employers.  These types of
apprentices, as of May 18, 2018.  This represents a decline of 6,096                        organizations are critical partners in the apprenticeship system
seats (or 17 per cent) from 2016-17.  The number of seats offered in                        through servicing communities across Alberta and supporting
2017-18 was the lowest since 2013-14.  The results of this indicator                        women, youth and Indigenous people in Alberta.
may continue to change in response to economic and labour market                            Notes
trends.  A lack of on-the-job learning opportunities offered by                             «   The 2017-18 result reflects the number of seats offered as of
employers may have led to a decline in demand for technical                                     May 18, 2018.
training seats.                                                                             „   The number of technical training seats offered reflects the
                                                                                                number of seats available to apprentices, which is usually
                                                                                                slightly higher than the number of seats actually filled or used.

---PDF PAGE 30---
26                                                        Results Analysis                                                       Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Performance                 Percentage of Albertans aged 18 to 34 participating in post-secondary education
 Indicator
 1.c                            20%

                                15%      17%         17%         17%         17%        18%

                                10%

                                 5%


                                         2013        2014        2015        2016       2017

                               Source  Labour Force Survey, Statistics Canada.

Description                                                                                This increase could be attributed to a wide variety of external
This indicator shows the percentage of individuals aged 18 to 34                           factors, such as changes in labour market conditions and
who report attending post-secondary programs in Alberta.  This                             demographics.  Post-secondary education might have become a
includes learners attending a university, college or other                                 more attractive alternative to labour market participation in recent
post-secondary institution.  The results are calculated by dividing                        years.  The population of 18 to 34 year olds in Alberta has slightly
the estimated number of individuals aged 18 to 34 who report                               decreased since 2015.  Both changes could have contributed to the
attending a university, college or other post-secondary institution in                     increase in the post-secondary participation rate.  The participation
Alberta (numerator) by the estimated number of Albertans aged                              rate could also be influenced by individuals’ high school
18 to 34 (denominator), based on the Alberta sample                                        experiences, health-related issues, and family characteristics such as
(approximately 5,690 households).                                                          family structure, family income, parental education and parents’
Results Analysis                                                                           attitude towards post-secondary education.
The percentage of Albertans aged 18 to 34 who report participating                         To encourage participation, Advanced Education undertakes several
in post-secondary education has remained stable at 17 per cent                             initiatives which include raising awareness of adult learning
over the past ten years.  In 2017, the participation rate rose to                          opportunities, providing stable institutional funding, and
18 per cent, which was a one percentage point increase from the                            addressing financial barriers by regulating tuition and providing
results observed over the previous years.                                                  various financial aids and scholarships.
                                                                                           Note
                                                                                           „   The result for this indicator is not a true ratio of enrolment to
                                                                                               population but rather is an estimated rate based on a sample
                                                                                               survey and is only considered accurate within a reasonable
                                                                                               margin of error.  Therefore, minor changes in results should be
                                                                                               treated with caution.

---PDF PAGE 31---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                 27


                             Outcome              High-quality education, training and research make a positive contribution to
                             Two                  Alberta’s economy, society, culture and environment


                          What this Means
                          Through high-quality education and training, Albertans build the knowledge, skills and competencies
                          needed to achieve their goals, support their families, serve their communities and adapt in an
                          interconnected and rapidly changing world.  Alberta’s post-secondary system is nationally and
                          internationally recognized.  Post-secondary graduates play a key role in diversifying the province’s
                          economy, bettering society and tackling complex societal and environmental challenges.


                          Senior Management Summary

                          „  The ministry supported the needs of the province’s growing learner population through post-secondary
                              infrastructure funds.  Provincial funding supports the expansion of capital projects needed to increase
                              student access and provincial research capacity, as well as preservation projects needed to maintain
                              existing buildings.  Institutions also receive support toward maintaining and improving facility
                              conditions.

                          „   The quality of degree programs continues to be assessed and monitored by the Campus Alberta Quality
                              Council (CAQC), an arms-length quality assurance agency that makes recommendations to the Minister
                              of Advanced Education on applications from post-secondary institutions seeking to offer new degree
                              programs in Alberta.  CAQC’s other key role entails monitoring degree programs to ensure its standards
                              of quality continue to be met.  In carrying out its responsibilities, CAQC works proactively with degree
                              granting institutions to support their own efforts to build and maintain effective quality assurance
                              processes and practices.  Between its creation in 2004 and March 31, 2017, the council recommended
                              approval of 158 baccalaureate programs and 72 graduate programs.  In collaboration with CAQC,
                              institutions, government and other stakeholders, the ministry supports the delivery of quality degree
                              programs to serve the best interests of adult learners.

                          „   To strengthen the province’s research and innovation system, the ministry continues to collaborate with
                              Alberta Innovates and other ministries, such as the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade.  The
                              objective is to coordinate the combined efforts of government and its stakeholders to maximize the
                              impact of support for post-secondary research excellence.  The ministry also supports the Alberta
                              Research and Innovation Framework which provides direction to stakeholders to collectively build a
                              stronger research and innovation system that delivers measurable results.

                          „   To improve student mental health on campuses, the ministry is providing direct, stable and long-term
                              funding to post-secondary institutions, so they can offer a range of services to students, including
                              better access to 24-hour phone and online counselling supports.  In the first three years of the program,
                              the ministry will spend $25.8 million in funding, and support other mental health related initiatives
                              with partner ministries in alignment with the provincial government’s vision of an integrated,
                              community-based health care system.

---PDF PAGE 32---
28                                                   Results Analysis                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Key Strategy 2.1         Invest in high-quality education and training programs and facilities to enhance the student
                          experience.
                          Capital Project Funding
                          The Government of Alberta is working to make life better for Alberta’s students and the province by
                          investing in modern and efficient infrastructure at Alberta post-secondary institutions.  Supporting
                          institutions’ efforts to renew existing spaces or create new ones ensures students have access to
                          world-class programming, learning spaces and resources for years to come.
                          Advanced Education made significant investments in post-secondary infrastructure.  In total,
                          approximately $498.7 million in funding was provided for a variety of capital projects in 2017-18.  The
                          types of post-secondary infrastructure supported included facilities for instruction, research and
                          administration.
                          The department provided $238.6 million for government’s existing allocation for multi-year capital projects
                          in Edmonton, Calgary, Lethbridge and Grand Prairie.  Examples include:

                            Project                                                                                        Funding
                            University of Lethbridge Destination Project                                                     $72.8M
                            NAIT Centre for Applied Technology                                                               $55.3M
                            University of Calgary Schulich School of Engineering                                             $51.6M
                            NorQuest College Expansion and Retrofit                                                          $40.0M
                            Lethbridge College Trades and Technology Renewal and Innovation Project                          $10.3M
                            University of Calgary MacKimmie Complex Project Planning                                          $8.6M

                          In collaboration with the Ministry of Infrastructure, Advanced Education also supported several capital
                          projects to meet the needs of a growing learner population.  In 2017-18, $12 million in funding was
                          provided to the following capital projects:

                            Project                                                                                        Funding
                            University of Alberta Dentistry-Pharmacy Building                                                $10.0M
                            Portage College Needs Assessment                                                                  $1.1M
                            Northern Lakes College High Prairie Consolidation Planning                                        $0.9M

                          Additionally, the department provided post-secondary institutions with $135.5 million (up from
                          $101.6 million in 2016-17) in capital maintenance and renewal to ensure students have access to modern
                          and high-quality learning environments.
                          The department also received $112.6 million through the Strategic Investment Fund from the federal
                          government and provided funding to post-secondary institutions in fiscal year 2017-18.

---PDF PAGE 33---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                 Results Analysis                                                29


 Key Strategy 2.2         Support the delivery of digitally-enabled learning models to meet students’ current and emerging
                          needs.
                          Campus Alberta Open Educational Resources Initiative
                          The Campus Alberta Open Educational Resources Initiative began in 2014-15 with an aim to support the
                          development of free and openly licensed educational materials for teaching, learning and research.
                          Between 2015 and 2017, the initiative funded the creation and adoption of course materials and capacity
                          building for post-secondary institution staff and faculty.  It also supported a provincial community of
                          practice, and the Alberta Open Educational Resources Summit.
                          The 2017 summit was a full-day conference hosted at the University of Alberta with 35 speakers, 100
                          in-person participants and four satellite locations.  Participants represented government, institutional
                          leadership, librarians, instructors, students and instructional leadership from post-secondary institutions,
                          school divisions, First Nations Colleges and libraries.
                          The ministry’s investments in these resources in previous years have built awareness and equipped local
                          campus leaders with the tools needed to continue the momentum on their own and influence cultural
                          change at their post-secondary institutions moving forward.

 Key Strategy 2.3         Improve information sharing and the ministry’s analysis and use of data to support a learner-
                          centered adult learning system.
                          Access to Data through the Alberta Learner Pathways System
                          The Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer and Advanced Education completed key work for the
                          Learner Pathways Modernization Initiative to develop more tools and supports for the new Alberta Learner
                          Pathways System (see Key Strategy 3.4).  A primary focus of this work is to provide students and other
                          stakeholders with greater access to learner pathways and mobility information and data.
                          In 2017-18, increased transfer agreements/decisions data for courses and programs (see Key Strategy 3.4),
                          as well as increased high school transitions-related information and agreements became available on the
                          Transfer Alberta search tool and mobile app (see Key Strategy 1.1).  Having this information shared through
                          a single accessible source allows students, school authorities, and business and industry to better manage
                          and plan high school transitions-related agreements.

---PDF PAGE 34---
30                                                  Results Analysis                                                Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Key Strategy 2.4         Promote post-secondary institutions as innovation catalysts that help drive Alberta’s economic
                          development, social prosperity and environmental stewardship, in alignment with cross-ministry
                          initiatives.
                          Promoting Research Investment in Alberta
                          Sponsored research revenue attracted by Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                          supports globally competitive research excellence that focuses on Alberta’s strengths and contributes to
                          economic diversification, healthy and resilient communities, and effective resource and environmental
                          management.  Advanced Education works with Alberta post-secondary institutions, the Ministry of
                          Economic Development and Trade, as well as other provincial and federal partners to ensure federal
                          investments in research flow to Alberta institutions.
                          Senior officials from Advanced Education, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, Alberta
                          Innovates, and three Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions participated in a mission to
                          Ottawa in October 2017 to strengthen relationships with federal leaders and partner organizations, identify
                          possible Alberta-Canada partnership opportunities, and emphasize Alberta’s research and innovation
                          strengths.
                          Bill 2: Growth and Diversification Act
                          In March 2018, the Government of Alberta introduced Bill 2: Growth and Diversification Act to leverage
                          existing programs and introduce new programs to stimulate growth across sectors and prepare Albertans
                          to succeed in jobs today and in the future.
                          This legislation supports provincial government investment in the creation of 3,000 more technology
                          related training spaces at post-secondary institutions over five years, and provides additional scholarship
                          and learner supports to ensure affordable, accessible post-secondary education opportunities in
                          technology training.  In addition, the initiative supports work-integrated learning and skills development
                          programs to help Albertans transition to technology-related careers, and establishes a Talent Advisory
                          Council on Technology.  Including members from industry, post-secondary institutions, students, and
                          organized labour, the council will provide advice and input on technology-related talent and
                          programming.

      Looking Ahead          In 2018-19, there will be funding to expand existing programs at post-secondary institutions by 200
                             seats.  This will be followed by 550 seats in 2019-20, and 740 seats in each of the remaining three years.
                             Scholarships are expected to be available beginning in 2019.

---PDF PAGE 35---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                31


 Key Strategy 2.5         Support post-secondary institutions in fostering healthy and safe campuses and communities
                          through initiatives related to mental health and the prevention of addiction and sexual violence.
                          Mental Health Support

       Did You Know?         One in five Albertans is impacted by mental issues and it is estimated that over 10 per cent of
                             Albertans will require addiction treatment at some point in their lives.  Most post-secondary students
                             fall into the highest risk age group for mental illness and/or substance use disorders.  In 2016, 10
                             Alberta post-secondary institutions participated in the National College Health Assessment survey to
                             better inform their health and wellness programming.  The survey highlighted, that over the past
                             twelve months, approximately:
                                 Hopeless                Overwhelmed                    Lonely                  Depressed                   Anxiety
                                  58%                               90%                  65%                  42%                            64%
                             Students felt             Students felt              Students felt             Students felt so           Students felt
                             hopeless.                 overwhelmed.               very lonely.              depressed it was           overwhelming
                                                                                                            difficult to               anxiety.
                                                                                                            function.

                          Student mental health is linked to academic achievement, learning, retention and future success.  In
                          June 2017, Advanced Education announced a long-term approach to improving post-secondary student
                          mental health.  The ministry will spend $25.8 million in the first three years of the program, and continue to
                          implement the seven Next Steps to Improve Post-Secondary Student Mental Health.
                          The Seven Recommendations

                          1.   Providing funding to post-secondary institutions for greater health promotion and mental health
                              supports.

                          2.   Defining the roles of post-secondary and public health systems in improving post-secondary student
                              mental health.

                          3.   Ensuring mental health supports are coordinated within the larger regional health systems.

                          4.   Providing a one-time, two-year grant opportunity to support Indigenous post-secondary students’
                              mental health.

                          5.   Funding the Healthy Campus Alberta Community of Practice to enhance system coordination,
                              consistency and continual improvement.

                          6.   Improving access to 24-hour universal mental health supports throughout the province.

                          7.   Reviewing student aid to ensure policies support students who are experiencing mental health
                              problems.
                          In August 2017, Advanced Education committed to providing $13.2 million in grant agreements to support
                          all 26 publicly funded post-secondary institutions in Alberta up until March 2019.  These grant agreements
                          support the delivery of on-campus post-secondary student mental health initiatives and the early work on
                          an approach for online and telephone crisis supports and referrals.  In addition, $656,500 in one-time
                          funding was given to 11 post-secondary institutions and all five First Nations Colleges, for two-year
                          projects to provide culturally affirming mental health literacy and support services for Indigenous students.
                          With direct funding being provided to post-secondary institutions, the ministry is increasing the capacity
                          of institutions to provide non-clinical mental health services on campus, while also requiring local and
                          regional coordination to ensure students are connected to all the services they need, even after they
                          complete their programs.  New campus mental health strategies are being developed at almost every
                          post-secondary institution.  Institutions are enhancing mental health-promoting policies, and providing
                          their students, staff and faculty with training and awareness opportunities to create healthier campuses,
                          improve resilience, and increase mental health literacy.

---PDF PAGE 36---
32                                                   Results Analysis                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


      Student Impact         “We were operating with a counsellor available for bookings and on campus one day per week.  It
                             seemed like this was meeting demand.  Once we provided full-time, onsite support, we quickly
                             realized the demand for counselling was far greater than we had expected.  For example, a student
                             who came for counselling was so excited about our services that she began recommending it to her
                             friends who she knew were struggling with stress, anxiety or depression.  Students are talking about
                             our counselling services and it seems as if we are making progress on reducing the stigma around
                             mental illnesses.”
                             St. Mary’s University


      Student Impact         In the fall semester, a student drew the attention of a campus community.  The student was socially
                             isolated and increasingly behaving in ways that brought negative attention to themself.  The student’s
                             behaviours sometimes required the attention of campus security.  With funding from Alberta’s
                             Post-secondary Student Mental Health Grant, the institution hired a counsellor of the same gender as
                             the student in the winter semester.  With the addition of this new counsellor, the at-risk student felt
                             comfortable enough to make a counselling appointment for the first time in their life.  Today, the
                             student remains committed to their counselling appointments, is connected to other on-campus
                             supports, and is learning new ways to engage with peers and faculty.  The support of an additional
                             counsellor created a choice in service and more access, which allowed the student to find the most
                             relevant support for their needs.
                             As reported by the institution, “The student’s personal growth is almost surreal.  If we did not have the
                             grant to support the hiring of this additional counsellor, the student may have slipped through the
                             cracks and that is heartbreaking.  We are so very grateful for an additional professional on our team
                             that arrived at the perfect time to connect with this student.”


      Looking Ahead          Building on the foundation of core services and approaches that was established with province-wide
                             grants in 2017-18, Advanced Education will work over the next two years to complete the
                             implementation of the seven steps.  Key priorities include expanding 24/7 crisis and referral services
                             for students and strengthening student mental health supports that are linked between
                             post-secondary institutions, education, health and social services in communities.

                          Prevention of Sexual Violence
                          The Government of Alberta believes that every Albertan has the right to live free from violence and that
                          perpetrators of sexual violence violate that right.  As part of its commitment to end sexual violence, the
                          government has pledged to improve the way Alberta’s social, health, justice and education systems
                          respond to sexual violence.
                          In order to ensure campuses are a safe and welcoming space for students, Advanced Education supported
                          post-secondary institutions in writing stand-alone policies on sexual violence in 2017-18.
                          As of March 2018, 20 out of the 26 publicly funded post-secondary institutions have policies written and in
                          place to address sexual violence.  Policies have been prepared based on the guiding principles and policy
                          framework statement developed collaboratively by the post-secondary institutions in 2016.  The remaining
                          post-secondary institutions are actively developing policy and Advanced Education has been monitoring
                          this work and continues to participate and support post-secondary institutions in an advisory capacity.

---PDF PAGE 37---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                            Results Analysis                                                        33


   Performance               Satisfaction of recent post-secondary graduates with the overall quality of their educational
      Measure                experience (biennial survey)
          2.a                  100%

                                90%      91%         91%         92%         92%         92%        90%+

                                80%

                                70%

                                60%

                                50%

                                40%

                                30%

                                20%

                                10%


                                         2008        2010        2012        2014       2016        Target

                               Source  Graduate Outcomes Survey, Advanced Education.

Description                                                                                In 2016, the fields of study that received the highest satisfaction
This measure indicates how satisfied recent graduates from                                 rates from graduates were legal and security (96 per cent), followed
Alberta’s post-secondary programs are with the overall quality of                          by business (93 per cent), health sciences (93 per cent), and
their educational experience.  It includes graduates from 25 publicly                      languages, social sciences, arts and humanities (93 per cent).
funded post-secondary institutions in Alberta.  The results of this                        Satisfaction rates across different credential types (including
measure may reflect a number of aspects of the learning experience                         certificate, diploma, applied and bachelor’s degrees, master’s
among recent post-secondary graduates, such as their perception of                         degree, and doctoral degree) were very similar, ranging between 91
professors, curriculum, skills development and personal growth.                            and 93 per cent.
Alberta’s post-secondary system provides students with                                     Advanced Education has been implementing a number of
high-quality education and opportunities to develop their skills and                       operational improvements for post-secondary programs.  In
research capacity.  A high level of satisfaction with the quality of                       addition, the ministry has released the Alberta Credential
educational experience indicates overall positive educational                              Framework to foster post-secondary system coherence by naming
outcomes that enable graduates to contribute positively to Alberta’s                       and defining Alberta credentials in a comprehensive structure.  The
economy, society, culture and environment.                                                 ministry also plans to work with institutions in Alberta to align
Results Analysis                                                                           programming with recommendations forthcoming from
                                                                                           stakeholder consultations in the province’s review of legislation and
In 2016, 92 per cent of recent post-secondary graduates reported                           policy.
satisfaction with the overall quality of their educational experience.                     Note
This result has met the target of 90 per cent plus and is consistent                       „   For a more detailed breakdown of results, see Section 4.4 of the
with the result in 2014.  In fact, the results of this measure have                            Alberta Graduate Outcomes Survey, Class of 2013/2014,
been fairly stable at above 90 per cent over the last five reporting                           Publicly-Funded Institutions Report.
cycles, which indicates a continuing trend of high satisfaction
among post-secondary graduates with their educational                                           Link  advancededucation.alberta.ca/media/497571/graduate-outcomes-
experience.  Results of this measure could be influenced by                                           survey-class-of-2013-14.pdf
graduates’ current situations, such as their employment and
income.

---PDF PAGE 38---
34                                                        Results Analysis                                                        Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


   Performance               Satisfaction of recent apprenticeship graduates with on-the-job training and technical training
      Measure                (biennial survey)
          2.b                                            On-the-Job Training                        Technical Training

                               100%
                                90%      92%    94%               93%       95%     96%       93%    94%               93%
                                                           91%                                                  89%              90%+   90%+
                                80%

                                70%

                                60%

                                50%

                                40%

                                30%

                                20%

                                10%


                                            2009              2011              2013              2016             2018             Target

                               Source  Survey of Graduates of the Apprenticeship and Industry Training System, Advanced Education.

Description                                                                                Results Analysis
Alberta’s apprenticeship education consists of on-the-job training                         In 2018, 89 per cent of recent apprenticeship graduates reported
(refers to on-the-job learning provided by an employer) and                                satisfaction with the overall quality of their on-the-job training.  This
technical training (refers to formal instruction provided at a                             result did not meet the target of 90 per cent plus.  However,
post-secondary institution).  Apprenticeship graduates’ satisfaction                       satisfaction with the overall quality of technical training among
with their on-the-job training and technical training indicates the                        recent apprenticeship graduates was 93 per cent in 2018, which has
overall quality of the training provided through Alberta’s                                 met the target of 90 per cent plus.  Apprenticeship training is
apprenticeship training system.  Specifically, for on-the-job training,                    directly related to industry and labour market demand.  Therefore,
the level of satisfaction may reflect the quality of training provided                     satisfaction with apprenticeship training could be impacted by
by supervisors and mentors, skills development and task relevance.                         changes in the economy and labour market conditions.
For technical training, satisfaction may reflect the system’s ability to                   Advanced Education works with industry, employer and employee
meet learner needs in terms of relevance and quality of course                             organizations and educational providers to facilitate the
content, teaching ability of instructors and adequacy of equipment.                        development and maintenance of program standards; provide
This measure is an assessment of whether Alberta’s apprenticeship                          registration and counselling services to apprentices and employers;
program is providing graduates with the education and skills that                          coordinate formal instruction in collaboration with post-secondary
they need to succeed and make a positive contribution to Alberta’s                         institutions; and certify apprentices and others who meet industry
economy and society.  It measures recent graduates’ opinions                               standards.  Additionally, the Government of Alberta has allocated
regarding the quality of training they experienced in their                                $31 million through its 2018 provincial budget for apprenticeship
apprenticeship program.                                                                    delivery, which will be used to develop and deliver apprenticeship
                                                                                           programs and support 12 regional offices.
                                                                                           Note
                                                                                           „   For a detailed breakdown of results, see the Comprehensive
                                                                                                Report – 2018 Survey of 2016/2017 Graduates of the
                                                                                                Apprenticeship Training.
                                                                                                Link  tradesecrets.alberta.ca/SOURCES/PDFS/Publications/2016-2017_
                                                                                                      Graduates_Apprenticeship_Programs_survey.pdf

---PDF PAGE 39---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                            Results Analysis                                                       35


 Performance                 Percentage of clients reporting they are either employed or in further education or training after
 Indicator                   leaving a skills training program
 2.a                           100%

                                90%

                                80%

                                70%      75%         74%
                                                                 70%        66%
                                60%                                                     65%

                                50%

                                40%

                                30%

                                20%

                                10%


                                         2013        2014       2015        2016        2017

                              Source   Work Outcomes Reporting Project (WORP) Survey, Alberta Community and Social Services.

Description                                                                               As such, the decline of the results could also be attributed to the
This performance indicator shows the percentage of Albertans who                          transition phase of Alberta’s economy, which may have led to higher
report they are either employed or in further education or training                       competitions for further education or training opportunities.  This in
after leaving a skills training program.  For Advanced Education, it                      turn could have negatively affected the results of this indicator.
refers to a foundational learning program.  The indicator assesses                        Since the responsibility and oversight of foundational learning
the effectiveness of these programs in helping participants meet                          programs was transferred from the Ministry of Community and
these goals.                                                                              Social Services to Advanced Education in April 2016, the
Foundational Learning Supports in Advanced Education provides                             Foundational Learning Supports Branch has been realigning its
funding to eligible adult Albertans to attend foundational learning                       mandate to meet the outcomes set by Advanced Education.  There
programs that prepare them for post-secondary education and                               are initiatives currently underway to increase the wrap-around
employment.  Foundational learning programs, which include                                services available to learners who access foundational learning
literacy and numeracy, adult basic education, academic upgrading,                         programs.  For example, Advanced Education is in the process of
English as a Second Language, and so on, are a critical component                         designing a new Integrated Foundational Pathways Program policy.
of the adult learning continuum, as they support adults for further                       This policy will allow training providers to develop programs that
learning and improve their educational and employment outcomes.                           can provide adult Albertans with a supportive and interactive
These programs are delivered by publicly funded institutions, First                       learning environment.  The ministry is also partnering with the
Nations Colleges, private career colleges, non-profit organizations,                      Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Community and Social
high schools and outreach schools.                                                        Services to achieve more integrated and seamless program delivery.
The intent of foundational learning is to enable Albertans to meet                        Notes
literacy and foundational learning needs in order to pursue further                       „   This performance indicator was introduced in the ministry’s
education through access to a full spectrum of learning                                        2017-20 business plan to reflect the cross-ministry partnership
opportunities.  This will lead them to satisfying and meaningful                               on delivering employment, learning and training programs and
employment and give them the ability to fully participate in society.                          services under the Income and Employment Supports Act.  As the
Results Analysis                                                                               responsibility and oversight of foundational learning programs
In 2017, 65 per cent of participants reported that they were either                            was transferred from the Ministry of Community and Social
employed or in further education or training.  This result fell below                          Services to Advanced Education, this indicator was also
those observed in previous years.                                                              transferred to Advanced Education to demonstrate the
                                                                                               ministry’s accountability for adult Albertans’ foundational
Internal program changes have impacted these results. With the                                 learning.
movement of certificate programs, apprenticeship programs and                             „   See Appendix C – Table 3 for the list of foundational learning
contracted training programs out of the foundational learning                                  programs offered.
portfolio, the participants have changed.  Most participants of
current foundational learning programs are further away from the
labour market.  These individuals tend to be the last hired in times
of a strong economy and the first to be released in times of a weak
labour market.

---PDF PAGE 40---
36                                                        Results Analysis                                                        Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Performance                 Sponsored research revenue attracted by Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and Research
 Indicator                   Institutions
 2.b                                  $ million
                               1,000

                                 900                                                    914.1
                                 800                 811.3       851.2      817.6
                                 700     767.8


                                 600

                                 500

                                 400

                                 300

                                 200

                                 100


                                        2012-13     2013-14    2014-15     2015-16     2016-17

                               Source  Sponsored Research Revenue: Research Funding at Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions Report, Alberta
                                       Economic Development and Trade.

Description                                                                                Results Analysis
Sponsored research revenue includes research grants, contracts and                         In 2016-17, Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and Research
donations, which are used to support research and innovation                               Institutions attracted a total of $914.1 million sponsored research
activities of post-secondary institutions.  They are the funds                             revenue, an increase of 12 per cent or $96.5 million from 2015-16.
garnered outside of regular university operating grants. This                              The 2016-17 result also went above all the historical results,
indicator reflects research capability, capacity and competitiveness                       indicating a significant increase in research revenue attracted by
in Alberta through the success of Comprehensive Academic and                               Alberta’s research-intensive universities which has enabled them to
Research Institutions in attracting sponsored research revenue from                        build and strengthen their research capacity.
multiple sources, including provincial and federal governments,                            Ninety per cent of total sponsored research revenue consisted of
industry, non-profit organizations, endowments, and municipal and                          research revenue from the federal government and the Government
international jurisdictions.                                                               of Alberta (63 per cent), industry (12 per cent) and non-profit
Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions                                 organizations (15 per cent).  Among the four Comprehensive
include the universities of Alberta, Calgary and Lethbridge, and                           Academic and Research Institutions in Alberta, the University of
Athabasca University.  They are key players in the province’s                              Alberta attracted the largest amount of research revenue
research and innovation system.  The sponsored research revenue                            ($513.3 million), followed by the University of Calgary
attracted by these institutions supports globally competitive                              ($380.4 million), the University of Lethbridge ($16.8 million) and
research excellence that focuses on Alberta’s key strengths in                             Athabasca University ($3.6 million).
health, agriculture, forestry, energy and environment.  It also                            Of the $96.5 million total increase in 2016-17, $67.1 million was
contributes to a broadened economic base, healthy and resilient                            from the federal and provincial governments, a rise of 13 per cent
communities, and effective resource and environmental                                      from the previous year.  This increase was fueled by research
management.                                                                                revenue from federal government programs, such as Canada
Success in acquiring and increasing sponsored research revenue is                          Research Chairs and Canada First Research Excellence Fund, as well
accomplished through highly competitive and excellence-driven                              as from the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade.
research activities.  Therefore, the ability of universities to attract                    The government continues to work in partnership with institutions
research revenue is also an indicator of the quality of the university’s                   to increase their competitiveness in attracting sponsored research
faculty and research programs.  The more sponsorship these                                 revenue.  For example, Advanced Education, the Ministry of
institutions draw, the better able they are to attract and retain                          Economic Development and Trade, Alberta Innovates, and the
world-class researchers.  These researchers, in turn, can attract top                      Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions met with
graduate students, further strengthening the workforce and                                 federal officials in 2016 and 2017 as a united Team Alberta to
economy.                                                                                   promote Alberta’s research and innovation priorities.

                                                                                           Note
                                                                                           „   The results for 2013-14 and 2015-16 were slightly different in
                                                                                                previous business plans due to rounding errors.

---PDF PAGE 41---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                 37


                             Outcome              The adult learning system is accountable and coordinated
                             Three


                          What this Means
                          Advanced Education provides oversight to the adult learning system to ensure that post-secondary
                          institution boards and other agencies for which the minister is responsible demonstrate governance
                          excellence.  This oversight is demonstrated by implementing an open, transparent and competency-based
                          recruitment process for the ministry’s public agencies.  Effective oversight provides direction to the adult
                          learning system and verifies that processes and systems are working well to achieve approved mandates
                          and manage risks.  A coordinated adult learning system is accountable for collaborating strategically and
                          providing learning opportunities across a spectrum of programs and services.


                          Senior Management Summary

                          „  Advanced Education continues to provide oversight so that public post-secondary institutions are
                              accountable to the public, government, and their boards and students on delivering high-quality,
                              affordable educational opportunities.

                          „   A major component of phase 3 of the review of agencies, boards and commissions consisted of an
                              examination of the roles and mandates of Alberta’s publicly funded post-secondary institutions and the
                              six-sector model.  At the outset, three key objectives were identified and communicated to the
                              ministry’s post-secondary system partners:

                              „   strengthening and updating the six-sector model,

                              „   aligning system differentiation and institutional roles and mandates with the five adult learning
                                  system principles, and

                              „   addressing outstanding challenges that post-secondary institutions face in relation to their existing
                                  roles and mandates within the system.

                          „   The department is in the process of implementing the new post-secondary executive compensation
                              framework.  By reining in salaries, eliminating bonuses, and cutting other benefits to university and
                              college presidents, the department is ensuring that taxpayer dollars are invested in the best interests of
                              students, staff, and faculty.

                          „   The department promotes accountability through an open, transparent and competency-based
                              recruitment and appointment process as outlined in Advanced Education’s Guidelines for Board of
                              Governors Members.  In collaboration with members of the Post-secondary Institution Agency
                              Governance Network, these guidelines were developed to provide an introduction to board governance
                              at Alberta’s public post-secondary institutions.  The guidelines include best practices and resources
                              designed to support the effective governance of public post-secondary institutions in Alberta.

                          „   In collaboration with stakeholders, the department ensures that the adult learning system provides a
                              full continuum of relevant learning opportunities that respond to the needs of all students in their
                              academic paths and career destinations.  It supports the Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer’s
                              (ACAT) mandate and work by providing a secretariat that manages transfer system operations,
                              including student mobility information, websites and tools.  In collaboration with ACAT, the ministry
                              facilitates learner pathways and mobility throughout the advanced learning system, with a focus on
                              post-secondary admissions and transfer.

---PDF PAGE 42---
38                                                  Results Analysis                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Key Strategy 3.1         Review Advanced Education’s agencies, boards and commissions to ensure relevance, efficiency,
                          effectiveness and best practices.
                          Review of Agencies, Boards and Commissions
                          The Government of Alberta continued to review Alberta’s public agencies, boards and commissions to
                          ensure they are effective, relevant and accountable.  This review took place in three phases under the
                          government-wide Agencies, Boards and Commissions (ABC) Review initiated in fall 2015.  Phase one of the
                          review focused on ABCs subject to the Alberta Public Agencies Governance Act (APAGA), excluding
                          post-secondary institutions.  Phase two focused on 146 agencies not subject to APAGA, and phase three of
                          the ABC Review focused on post-secondary institutions.
                          As a result of the ABC Review, three Advanced Education agencies (Students Finance Board, Alberta
                          Heritage Scholarship Committees, and Access Advisory Council) were dissolved by the Agencies, Boards and
                          Commissions Review Statutes Amendment Act in December 2017.  In fall 2017, five agencies were confirmed
                          to maintain their regular operations: Campus Alberta Quality Council, Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry
                          Training Board, University of Alberta Senate, University of Calgary Senate and University of Lethbridge
                          Senate.  Review of the Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfers continues and is expected to conclude
                          in 2018-19.
                          Phase three of the ABC Review began in January 2017, with research and stakeholder consultation
                          continuing throughout the 2017-18 fiscal year.  The scope of phase three included the following primary
                          components and results:
                          Executive Compensation
                          A review of compensation for presidents of public post-secondary institutions to ensure transparency, fairness
                          and consistency.  The department undertook extensive data collection, including analysis of input from
                          post-secondary institutions, assessment of cross-jurisdictional comparators, and engaging the advice of
                          third party experts related to job evaluation.  As a result, government cut university and college president
                          salaries, eliminated bonuses, and prohibited perks such as executive allowances.  This brings the
                          compensation of university and college presidents in line with the broader public sector, the national
                          post-secondary market, and Albertans’ expectations.  A new regulation—the Reform of Agencies, Boards
                          and Commissions (Post-secondary Institutions) Compensation Regulation—was implemented effective
                          April 15, 2018.  The new framework ensures that taxpayer dollars are being used in the best interests of
                          students, staff and faculty.
                          Conflicts of Interest
                          A review of post-secondary institutions’ conflicts of interest policies to ensure current policies and related
                          oversight meet or exceed the minimum standards for the Alberta Public Service.  This work was led by the
                          Public Agency Secretariat, and resulted in the Government of Alberta enacting amendments to the
                          Conflicts of Interest Act in December 2017.  These amendments extended conflicts of interest rules to public
                          agencies, including public post-secondary institutions governed by the Alberta Public Agencies Governance
                          Act.  Requirements include having a code of conduct for board members and staff, which is subject to
                          review and approval by the Ethics Commissioner.
                          Roles and Mandates
                          A review of the roles and mandates of Alberta’s publicly funded post-secondary institutions.  The department
                          undertook extensive consultations with learners, faculty associations and post-secondary institutions
                          before government approved a number of decisions in February 2018.  These decisions will strengthen the
                          six-sector model, ensure that post-secondary institution roles and mandates are in alignment with the
                          system’s vision and principles and address outstanding challenges that some institutions were facing with
                          respect to their role, mandate or institutional governance (see Key Strategy 3.2).

---PDF PAGE 43---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                 Results Analysis                                                39


                          Governance Excellence
                          A review of post-secondary institution board composition and adult learning system governance.  This includes
                          reviewing the role of the Campus Alberta Strategic Directions Committee, and the role of the provincial
                          government in relation to boards of governors at Alberta’s public post-secondary institutions.  It also
                          includes the development of a board orientation program by the department, in order to complement
                          existing board orientation offered by post-secondary institutions.
                          Post-Secondary Institution Board Recruitment and Appointments
                          The department follows an established competency-based, open and transparent post-secondary board
                          recruitment process to fill public member and senate board vacancies.
                          There are 341 board opportunities across the post-secondary sector.  Between April 2017 and March 2018,
                          the department posted 42 board recruitments and received over 640 applications.  The department
                          processed 138 public member and 75 representative appointments.

 Key Strategy 3.2         Articulate the oversight role of government and the individual and collective mandates of
                          post-secondary institutions.
                          Roles and Mandates Review
                          As part of the ABC Review phase three, the department undertook and completed a review of the roles and
                          mandates of Alberta’s publicly funded post-secondary institutions.  The review clarifies and strengthens
                          post-secondary institutions’ individual and collective mandates and better aligns the six-sector model with
                          the adult learning system principles of accessibility, affordability, quality, accountability and coordination.
                          Implementation of the roles and mandates review will create:

                          „   a more clearly defined and coordinated six-sector model,

                          „   greater flexibility for post-secondary institutions in all regions of the province to meet the needs of
                              learners in their communities, and

                          „   stronger direction from government to post-secondary institutions with respect to system
                              collaboration, which will further enhance accessibility.

      Looking Ahead         Advanced Education will implement decisions resulting from the review of roles and mandates.  The
                            implementation process is planned to include amendments to the Post-secondary Learning Act.

---PDF PAGE 44---
40                                                  Results Analysis                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Key Strategy 3.3         Support robust accountability for the department and the system.
                          Bill 7: An Act to Enhance Post-Secondary Bargaining
                          Bill 7: An Act to Enhance Post-Secondary Bargaining received Royal Assent in May 2017.  This Act amended
                          both the Post-secondary Learning Act and the Labour Relations Code to modernize the labour relations
                          model for academic staff, graduate students and postdoctoral fellows, establishing their right to strike and
                          access the Labour Relations Board.
                          Advanced Education has worked with graduate students associations and postdoctoral fellows to develop
                          regulations required as a result of this legislation, including the Graduate Students Association Model
                          Bylaw Provisions Regulation and Orders in Council to establish postdoctoral fellows associations at the
                          University of Alberta, University of Calgary and University of Lethbridge.
                          Community Adult Learning Program and the Legal Host Model Review
                                Definition
                                Legal hosts are entities approved by Advanced Education to act as the legal administrator and receive
                                Community Adult Learning Program funding on behalf of an organization that is not a legal entity.  Despite
                                not being legal entities, organizations that operate under a legal host are still expected to have
                                decision-making bodies/boards that operate with sound practices in governance, and in the planning and
                                management of programs, finance and personnel.
                          In 2017-18, through the CALP conditional funding process, Advanced Education initiated a review of the
                          legal host model in Alberta.  The legal host model is a historical, non-conventional approach that was
                          utilized to ensure that CALP programming could be made available in communities that did not, at the
                          time, have an eligible funding recipient, such as a non-profit organization.  The goal of the provincial
                          review of legal hosts was to ensure that organizations receiving CALP-funding through a legal host have
                          adequate clarity and documentation in place with regard to the roles and responsibilities of staff, board
                          members and legal host, to support effective governance and administration of the organization.  Further,
                          the review intended to ensure that organizations utilizing the legal host model were adequately prepared
                          should circumstances arise that might disrupt normal operations.
                          The provincial review of the legal host model resulted in a number of organizations with historically
                          problematic governance and administration challenges demonstrating significant improvement and
                          progress towards closer alignment with CALP operational requirements.  Moving forward, the ministry will
                          work with organizations to ensure that organizations operating under a legal host regularly evaluate their
                          governance and administrative processes to ensure they align with the requirements and expectations of
                          the department as outlined in the CALP guidelines.

---PDF PAGE 45---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                 41


 Key Strategy 3.4         Enhance Albertans’ ability to transfer efficiently between providers and programs in a
                          coordinated adult learning system.

                               Definitions
                               Learner pathways and transitions into and between institutions and programs are an important
                               component of the post-secondary system.

                               „   Pathways are learners’ routes into/among/from/back into post-secondary or adult education.
                                   Examples include admissions, transfer, dual credit, prior learning assessment and recognition,
                                   interprovincial mobility and foundational learning.

                               „   Mobility is a learner’s ability to access pathways, and move between institutions.  This includes the
                                   ability to transfer courses and earn credits towards a credential at more than one
                                   institution/organization, ladder one credential to another, receive credit for experiential or non-formal
                                   learning, or build on foundational learning to enter post-secondary studies.
                          Learner Pathways Modernization Initiative and the Alberta Learner Pathways System
                          The Learner Pathways Modernization Initiative is led by the Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer in
                          partnership with Advanced Education, and in collaboration with Alberta stakeholders and provincial
                          partners.  It is focused on modernization and redesign of technology, processes, information access and
                          tools/supports for learner pathways and mobility, with an emphasis on improving student access to
                          pathways and mobility information and institutional ability to share this information.
                          The process was planned in four phases:

                          „   Phase One: Business Assessment (completed in 2014-15),

                          „   Phase Two: Transfer System Modernization (completed in 2017),

                          „   Phase Three: Stakeholder Tools, and

                          „   Phase Four: Learner Pathways Connections.
                          In 2017-18, the final stage of phase two and the initial parts of phase three were completed.  This work
                          built on the foundations of the new Alberta Learner Pathways System, which supports greater student
                          access to pathways and mobility information, and improves a post-secondary institution’s ability to
                          manage and share data with other institutions and with students (see Key Strategy 2.3).
                          Transfer and Pathways System Modernization
                          During the development of the Learner Pathways System, the Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer
                          website was redesigned in 2017-18 to provide updated pathways and mobility information, tools, and
                          supports for institutions and organizations.  A new High School Transitions Module was developed and the
                          Transfer Alberta search tool and mobile app were updated to include data for high school transitions and
                          course agreements, including dual credit (see Key Strategy 1.1).
                          In 2017-18, approximately 62,000 users from Alberta, Canada, and other countries accessed the Transfer
                          Alberta search tool and mobile app to receive post-secondary planning information regarding transfer
                          agreements and high school transitions-related information.  Approximately 44,000 active transfer
                          agreements/decisions for courses and programs were available as of March 2018 for completed courses
                          and programs between 2010-11 and 2017-18 through the Transfer Alberta search tool and mobile app.

---PDF PAGE 46---
42                                                  Results Analysis                                                Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                          Key Innovations for Learner Pathways System Tools
                          The Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer worked in collaboration with Alberta students,
                          post-secondary institutions, the K-12 system, partners in other jurisdictions, government, and other
                          stakeholders to complete innovative Learner Pathways System updates.  These updates support student
                          planning and success in Alberta and across Canada.  Examples include:

                          „   Ability to share student-focused pathways information, including transfer agreement and high school
                              transitions-related information, in an accessible and coordinated source for students through Transfer
                              Alberta.

                          „   Ability for institutions to share course and program transfer agreements directly from their own systems
                              through Transfer Alberta.

                          „   Ability for K-12 school authorities and their post-secondary and business/industry partners to share
                              high school transitions agreements, including dual credit, with students through the Transfer Alberta
                              search tool and mobile app.

 Key Strategy 3.5         Support pan-Canadian initiatives to improve apprenticeship program alignment and apprentice
                          mobility.
                          Harmonization of Apprenticeship Programs
                          The Interprovincial Standards Red Seal Program is the Canadian standard of excellence for skilled
                          journeypersons, and was established for apprenticeship programs that are common to most jurisdictions in
                          Canada.  The ministry is consulting with the Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training Board and
                          Provincial Apprenticeship Committees to promote greater consistency of the apprenticeship program for
                          30 Red Seal trades by 2020 based on strategic direction from the Canadian Council of Directors of
                          Apprenticeship.  The objectives of this initiative are to enhance the mobility of apprentices, increase
                          program completion rates and improve alignment of apprenticeship programs.  The Canadian Council of
                          Directors of Apprenticeship identified four harmonization priorities: use of the Red Seal names, a consistent
                          number of levels/periods, consistent total on-the-job hours and more substantively aligned formal
                          instruction through technical training at post-secondary institutions.
                          Alignment of the 30 apprenticeship programs is being carried out in five phases, starting with those that
                          have a high volume of registered apprentices.  This will cover approximately 90 per cent of Canadian
                          apprentices.  For each identified apprenticeship program, industry is engaged at the national and
                          provincial/territorial levels to consult on recommendations for harmonization.  Phases 1 and 2 have been
                          completed and the changes to the phase 3 apprenticeship programs will be implemented in
                          September 2018.  Work is currently underway on the final phases and those changes will be implemented
                          in September 2020.
                          In 2017-18, 21 regulations for apprenticeship programs and occupations were amended to support
                          consistency and effectiveness of apprentice programs.

---PDF PAGE 47---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                            Results Analysis                                                        43


   Performance               Percentage of post-secondary transfer graduates satisfied with the transfer credit they received
      Measure                (biennial survey)
          3.a                  100%

                                90%      91%         90%                                90%+
                                                                 88%         89%
                                80%

                                70%

                                60%

                                50%

                                40%

                                30%

                                20%

                                10%


                                         2010        2012        2014        2016       Target

                               Source  Graduate Outcomes Survey, Advanced Education.

Description                                                                                Satisfaction could be, in large part, driven by students’ expected
This measure demonstrates the satisfaction level among recent                              outcomes.  Historically, satisfaction was significantly higher among
post-secondary graduates with the transfer credit that they                                those who received the credit that they were expecting compared
received.  This includes graduates from 25 publicly funded                                 to those who did not.  Additionally, easy access to learner pathways
post-secondary institutions in Alberta who had received transfer                           and mobility information in a well-designed interface may also
credit from another institution (also including institutions outside of                    enhance students’ satisfaction with their transfer experience.
Alberta).  The results of this measure may reflect graduates’                              Advanced Education is working with the Alberta Council on
perception of whether post-secondary students are able to receive                          Admissions and Transfer (ACAT) to modernize Alberta’s Transfer and
credit as they expected for prior learning at other post-secondary                         Pathways System as part of a four-phase Learner Pathways
institutions, thereby making it easier for students to change                              Modernization Initiative, so that students can more easily access
institutions as their lives and interests evolve over the course of                        post-secondary pathways in Alberta including admissions and
their student experience, and potentially saving them time and                             transfer.  For example, Advanced Education and ACAT have made it
money by not requiring them to take or retake courses that cover                           easier for students to access information, planning and support for
the material they have already learned.  It could also reflect their                       admissions and transfer with a new and enhanced Transfer Alberta
perception of whether students are able to adapt their learning plan                       website, search tool and mobile app.  The ministry also continues to
to shifting opportunities and circumstances in order to achieve their                      work with ACAT, institutions and other stakeholders to remove
goals.                                                                                     barriers to student mobility, enable learner pathways and improve
To some extent, this measure speaks to system support for student                          organizational processes and access to information.  Alberta and six
mobility into and within Alberta’s post-secondary system.                                  other provincial councils on credit transfer and related bodies in
Collaborative transfer arrangements between Alberta’s                                      Canada have also recently signed a memorandum of understanding
post-secondary institutions help to provide accessible learner                             to enhance student mobility across each province and the country.
pathways, which is a key part of a learner-centric, coordinated                            All of these developments reflect the ministry’s commitment to
post-secondary system.                                                                     supporting greater student access to pathways and mobility in
Results Analysis                                                                           Alberta, including transfer student success.
In 2016, among recent post-secondary graduates who had received                            Note
transfer credit, 89 per cent were satisfied with the transfer credit                       „   For more results on transfer credits, see Section 6.1 of the
that they received.  This result did not meet the target of                                    Alberta Graduate Outcomes Survey, Class of 2013/2014,
90 per cent plus; however, it was one percentage point higher than                             Publicly-Funded Institutions Report.
the result in 2014.  In 2016, over two out of five (44 per cent)                                Link  advancededucation.alberta.ca/media/497571/graduate-outcomes-
graduates completed some post-secondary courses, not including                                        survey-class-of-2013-14.pdf
upgrading, prior to enrolling at a post-secondary institution in
Alberta.  Of those graduates, nearly half (46 per cent) received
transfer credit or advanced standing for these courses taken at
another institution, which was an increase of seven percentage
points from 2014.

---PDF PAGE 48---
44                                                    Results Analysis                                                   Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                           Other Initiatives

                           Private Career Colleges
                           Career training at private career colleges provides students with specialized skills and knowledge to
                           prepare them for employment in a specific field.  At the end of 2017-18, there were 174 private career
                           colleges in Alberta offering 958 licensed career training programs.  These programs prepare students for
                           employment in fields ranging from health and business to heavy equipment operation and dog grooming.
                           The training programs offered by these colleges add to the range of available post-secondary options for
                           Alberta students with shorter-term, career-focused training.
                           Demographic Profile of Private Career Colleges
                                           Students                                        Female                                      Indigenous
                                            23,000+                                                   80%                    7%

                            Students attended a private                    Graduates were female.                         Respondents self-identified as
                            career college in 2016-17.                                                                    Indigenous.
                             Source  Advanced Education and 2016 Graduate Outcomes Survey (Class of 2013-14) – Publicly Funded Institutions Report

                           Graduation and Job Placement Rate of Licensed Career Training Programs in Alberta
                                             Graduation Rate                   Job Placement Rate
                             100%

                              90%      84%                              84%        85%        83%        87%
                                                  81%        81%                                                    81%        79%
                              80%                                       83%        81%        81%        82%
                              70%      78%        76%        78%                                                    77%        78%      70% Baseline

                              60%

                              50%

                              40%

                              30%

                              20%

                              10%


                                     2008-09    2009-10    2010-11    2011-12    2012-13    2013-14    2014-15    2015-16    2016-17

                             Source  Advanced Education
                              Note   Graduation and job placement figures for 2017-18 were not available in time for inclusion in the annual report.

                           The graduation rate of licensed career training programs was 79 per cent in 2016-17 and the job placement
                           rate was 78 per cent—well above the 70 per cent baseline set out in ministry policy.  Additionally, a 2016
                           survey of graduates from 71 private career colleges found that:
                                      Teaching Quality                             Quality of Program                       Post-Secondary Experience
                                                       79%                                          76%                                           75%

                            Satisfied with the overall                     Satisfied with the overall quality             Satisfied with their overall
                            teaching quality in their                      of their program                               post-secondary experience.
                            program.
                             Source  2016 Graduate Outcomes Survey (Class of 2013-14) – Publicly Funded Institutions Report, Advanced Education.

---PDF PAGE 49---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                     Results Analysis                                                   45


                           To provide consumer protection to students enrolled at private career colleges, the ministry, in accordance
                           with the Private Vocational Training Act and its associated regulations, must license career programs offered
                           by private institutions.  As part of their licensing requirements, private career colleges must submit annual
                           reports to the ministry that include information on the graduation and job placement rates of their
                           students.  If programs offered by private career colleges fail to maintain graduation and job placement
                           rates above 70 per cent for four consecutive reporting periods, they face a variety of consequences,
                           including the potential cancellation of their license.
                           Supporting Students with Disabilities
                           Advanced Education provided $11.2 million in grant funding to enhance institutional capacity to provide
                           supports and accommodations for students with disabilities in 2017-18.  This funding was an increase of
                           $1 million from the previous year to address increasing cost pressures.
                           Students with Disabilities Seeking and Receiving Services and Accommodation from Alberta’s 26
                           Publicly Funded Post-Secondary Institutions
                           Unique Headcount Enrolment (Full- and Part-Time)

                                                                        Students assessed with:                       2015-16       2016-17
                                                     16,692                  1    Single Disability                      10,669        11,675
                                  14,805

                                                                             2+   Multiple Disabilities                   4,136         5,017


                                                                            1      1      1      1     1      1      1     2+     2+     2+

                                 2015-16            2016-17                                           2016-17
                            The number of students with                 In 2016-17, 70 per cent of students with a disabling
                            disabilities increased by                   condition seeking accommodations were assessed as
                            12.75 per cent from 2015-16 to              having a single (primary) disability while 30 per cent were
                            2016-17.                                    assessed as having multiple disabilities.

                                                                        Most Common Types of Disability in 2016-17
                                                                        Students assessed with:
                                                                           Psychiatric Disability
                                                                                   29.85%

                                                                           Learning Disability

                                           2016-17                              24.28%
                            Students with disabilities                     Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
                            comprised 6.3 per cent of overall
                            enrolment.                                      18.93%

---PDF PAGE 50---
46                                                   Results Analysis                                                  Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                           The types of services provided to students with disabilities in 2016-17 are as follows:

                            Academic/Learning Strategies                               3,158
                            Alternate Format                                           2,020
                            Assisted Technologies Assessments/Services                 1,077
                            Interpreting/Cart Reporting                                   88
                            Note-taking                                                  837
                            Advising                                                 16,566
                            Psycho-Educational Assessment Referrals                    1,065
                            Tutoring                                                   1,738
                            Academic Aide/Assistant in Classroom                         180

                           Post-secondary institutions also accommodate students with disabilities in taking exams.  These
                           accommodations can take different forms including: providing a separate room so the student can take the
                           exam alone, providing the exam questions orally rather than in written form, or allowing students more
                           time to complete the exam.

                            Students Requiring Accommodation for Exams

                                       Students             Exams
                                      9,417      2016-17                                                                                      83,629        ü

                             14.23%    8,244     2015-16                                                                         71,869                  16.65%
                            increase                                                                                                                     increase

                           Greater numbers of students with disabilities are also seeking student financial assistance.  Under Canada
                           Students Loans, students can access a maximum of $10,000 per loan year in grants to offset the costs
                           associated with services, equipment and other supports they may need.  Students with disabilities not
                           eligible for Canada Student Loans can also access an Alberta Grant.  In 2016-17, approximately 3,467
                           students with permanent disabilities accessed Canada Student Loans Grants for a total of just over
                           $7 million and approximately 480 students accessed the Alberta grant for a total of $560,838.

       Did You Know?         Advanced Education provides funding to institutions to support the delivery of the Transitional
                             Vocational Program, which provides foundational learning for persons with developmental disabilities.
                             The program ranges from 36 to 52 weeks and is offered at four publicly funded post-secondary
                             institutions in Alberta: Olds College, Red Deer College, NorQuest College and Mount Royal University.
                             The program assists learners to become independent by gaining life skills, employment skills and by
                             facilitating and supporting students through a work practicum component.
                             To be eligible for the Transitional Vocational Program, individuals must be identified as having a
                             developmental disability.  A person with a developmental disability is defined as an individual who is
                             experiencing significant limitation in intellectual capacity, which significantly affects their ability to
                             learn and perform daily living skills.  An applicant’s intellectual capacity is determined through a
                             formal IQ test administered by a registered psychologist.  In 2016-17, 81 students were enrolled in the
                             Transitional Vocational Program.

---PDF PAGE 51---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                Results Analysis                                               47


                         Coal and Electricity Transition Tuition Voucher
                         Alberta coal workers have a proud history of helping to power a prosperous and industrious province.  The
                         government knows how important it is to make sure it supports workers and families as the economy
                         transitions away from coal.  Government has the backs of coal communities across the province and is
                         committed to ensuring that they have the supports they need in the short-term through this transition and
                         long in to the future as well.
                         Advanced Education is playing a key role in assisting workers impacted by the closing of Alberta coal-fired
                         power plants and coal mines, by creating a series of financial and career-related services to help workers
                         facing layoffs transition to re-employment.
                         To support workers transitioning to new jobs, Advanced Education has created a new tuition voucher
                         program, available to workers who have worked for one or more of the affected coal-fired power plants or
                         mines for at least one year immediately prior to receiving a layoff notice.  The Coal and Electricity Transition
                         Tuition Voucher provides up to $12,000 credit for workers to pursue post-secondary education to train for
                         new careers.  Workers have up to five years to use the voucher.
                         Programs of Study that are Eligible

                         „   Programs of study must be delivered through one of Alberta’s 26 publicly funded post-secondary
                             institutions or five First Nations Colleges.

                         „   Programs of study are limited to credit courses leading to a post-secondary credential (certificate,
                             diploma, or degree) program, including apprenticeship and open studies.

                         „   Eligible apprenticeship programs could include Prior Learning Assessments or the Trades Qualifier
                             exam.

                         „   Non-credit programs, such as academic upgrading, are not eligible.
                         International Opportunities for Students
                         In 2017-18, Advanced Education distributed approximately $1 million in grants to fund the
                         participation of post-secondary students in international study and research programs.  Major
                         grant programs include the Campus Alberta Grant for International Learning, the Alberta-
                         Smithsonian Internship Program and the Washington Center Alberta Internship Program.
                         In 2017-18, the Campus Alberta Grant for International Learning provided $375,000 in funding to
                         14 Campus Alberta institutions.  This funding supported a total of 500 students, in 39 programs,
                         travel to 31 countries.
                         These programs provide Albertans with an opportunity to acquire knowledge and competencies
                         to support economic diversification and growth, and encourage business creation and attraction.
                         International education and internship programs also allow Albertans to engage as global citizens
                         in an increasingly interconnected world.

---PDF PAGE 52---
48                                                 Results Analysis                                                Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

Update on Risks to Achieving Outcomes

Advanced Education faces a number of risks in achieving affordable, accessible and high-quality educational learning
opportunities accessible to all Albertans.

      2017-20 Business Plan Risks                                                    2017-18 Annual Report Update

System Responsiveness
Alberta’s economy is affected by complex                 Alberta’s post-secondary education system is being challenged to respond to the
economic, social, cultural and                           changing needs of our society and economy due to exponential growth in
environmental factors that lead to                       technology, disruptions in the global economy and shifting demographics.
pressures on the adult learning system to                Strategic foresight and scanning is ongoing to understand these complexities
respond.  Adult learning providers face                  and future trends.  This work is being used to support planning within the
challenges such as enrolments that                       department to help address responsiveness.
fluctuate by regions, populations and                    Advanced Education collaborates with partner ministries including the Ministry
fields of study, combined with rapidly                   of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of
shifting labour market needs.  To address                Education and the Ministry of Health, as well as employers, industry, regulatory
these challenges, Advanced Education will                bodies and other jurisdictions to respond to changing workforce needs and spur
foster strategic partnerships and use a                  innovation in the economy.
comprehensive approach to achieve                        The ministry also continues to strengthen collaboration through strategic
desired system outcomes using data and                   partnerships to leverage investment.  Through Campus Alberta Grants, the
information.  Enhancing the ministry’s                   ministry enables Alberta’s post-secondary institutions to prepare for future
ability to analyze data will support the                 workforce needs and drive research and innovation.  Advanced Education also
goal of a learner-centred and transparent                supports post-secondary institutions to develop research capacity and serve as
adult learning system.                                   community hubs for strengthening local, provincial and global connections.


Foundational Skills
Albertans who further develop their                      The ministry provides a range of foundational learning opportunities to enhance
foundational skills are better able to                   access and strengthen pathways for learners.
participate in community life, find                      Through further integration and alignment of business processes, the
meaningful employment and pursue                         responsibility for funding adult foundational learners continued its transition
further learning.  Increasing demand for                 from the Ministry of Community and Social Services.  To meet high demand for
literacy and essential skills training has               programming, the ministry continues to improve efficiencies to ensure the
been accompanied by a need for greater                   maximum number of learners possible are able to participate in foundational
learner supports.  Advanced Education                    learning programs.
continues to work on integrating                         Community Adult Learning Programs (CALP) reside within Advanced Education.
foundational skills programs into the                    The ministry has worked to improve accountability in foundational learning
ministry, in addition to being a part of                 through the further alignment of program guidelines and department direction
cross-ministry work in strategic planning                for CALP.
of future directions for education, training,
and employment programs and services.

---PDF PAGE 53---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                  Results Analysis                                                 49


     Risk in 2017-20 Business Plan                                                    2017-18 Annual Report Update

Needs of Indigenous learners
Post-secondary participation and                          The ministry initiated an Indigenous Adult Learner Policy engagement to
completion rates for Indigenous learners                  increase its understanding of the needs of learners, identify programming gaps,
continue to be a challenge.  The ministry is              and improve existing programs and wraparound services.  Advanced Education is
committed to supporting the principles                    expected to conclude the initial phase of engagement in June 2018 and begin to
and objectives of the United Nations                      analyze the findings.
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous                   The ministry continues to provide First Nations Colleges with stable funding.
Peoples, and the Truth and Reconciliation                 These funds support the delivery of programs from adult basic education to
Commission of Canada.  Advanced                           accredited programs, as well as activities and initiatives that support student
Education will continue to work with                      access, retention, and learner outcomes.
Indigenous, provincial and federal
partners, and the adult learning system to
improve Indigenous Albertans’
educational and social outcomes.

---PDF PAGE 54---
50                                                   Results Analysis                                                  Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                           Financial Highlights

                           The consolidated Ministry Financial Statements include:
                           „  the Department of Advanced Education,
                           „  the Access to the Future Fund, and
                           „  Alberta public post-secondary institutions.

                           Revenues

                                                                                                     2018                 2017
                                                                                                     Actual              Actual
                                                                                (in thousands)                          (Restated Note 4)
                            Government Transfers
                               Government of Alberta Grants                                    $        380,592     $       370,755
                               Federal and Other Government Grants                                      532,883             507,045
                            Investment Income                                                           231,236             232,868
                            Gain (Loss) from Government Business Enterprises                               3,610              (1,777)
                            Premiums, Fees and Licences                                                    5,665               4,751
                            Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                            1,201,554           1,168,827
                            Sales, Rentals and Services                                                 593,765             612,217
                            Donations, Grants and Contributions                                         359,417             322,414
                            Other Revenue                                                               207,540             152,280
                                                                                               $      3,516,262     $     3,369,380

                           Revenue increased by $147 million from the prior year as a result of the following:

                           „   $55 million increase in other revenue due to $32 million gain from the sale of capital assets held for sale
                               by post-secondary institutions and a $23 million increase in endowment contributions and reinvested
                               income.

                           „   $37 million increase in private donations, grants and contributions.

                           „   $33 million increase in tuition and non-credit courses primarily due to an increase in domestic and
                               international enrollment.

                           „   $26 million increase in federal and other government grants due to additional funding of $22 million
                               received from the federal government for the Labour Market Development Program to support
                               employment assistance and training, and an increase of $4 million in various other government grants
                               to post-secondary institutions.

                           „   $10 million increase in Government of Alberta grants primarily due to an increase in post-secondary
                               grants from Alberta Health partially offset by a decrease in grants from Alberta Education and Alberta
                               Innovates.

                           „   $4 million increase in various other revenue categories.

                           „   The increases in revenue were offset by an $18 million decrease in sales, rentals and services, which is
                               primarily due to decreased sales activity at some post-secondary institutions.

---PDF PAGE 55---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                      Results Analysis                                                    51

                           Expenses

                                                                                                        2018                 2017
                                                                                                       Actual               Actual
                                                                                  (in thousands)                           (Restated Note 4)
                             Salaries, Wages and Employee Benefits                                $      3,622,000     $      3,484,121
                             Supplies and Services                                                       1,376,405            1,324,826
                             Grants                                                                        557,282              505,573
                             Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets                                       501,404              506,667
                             Interest on Long-Term Debt                                                     39,258               39,436
                             Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                              46,994               62,726
                             Other                                                                           (6,325)             11,447
                             Total Expenses                                                       $       6,137,018    $      5,934,796

                           Expenses increased by $202 million from the prior year as a result of the following:

                           „   $138 million increase in salaries, wages and employee benefits primarily due to collective agreement
                               salary increases and growth at post-secondary institutions.

                           „   $51 million increase in supplies and services primarily due to increased spending on repairs and
                               maintenance.

                           „   $52 million increase in grants due to grants the department paid to individuals and grants
                               post-secondary institutions paid to external entities.

                           „   $18 million decrease in other expenses due to $14 million decrease in pension provisions and $4 million
                               decrease in employee benefits provision.

                           „   $16 million decrease in the provision for future cost of student loans issued.  Write-off of statute barred
                               loans resulted in higher projected recoveries, which reduced the provision.

                           „   $5 million decrease in amortization of equipment.

---PDF PAGE 56---
52                                                               Results Analysis                                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                 Funding Provided to Post-Secondary Institutions
                                 for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                          Operating Grants (1)          Grants for Infrastructure
                                                                                                                                          2018            2017             2018            2017

                                  Post-Secondary Institutions

                                      Comprehensive Academic and                    Athabasca University                              $     49,278    $     42,761     $      1,793    $       1,793
                                      Research Institutions                         University of Alberta                                 669,315          663,695           78,149          66,099

                                                                                    University of Calgary                                 491,977          493,371         121,485           77,554
                                                                                    University of Lethbridge                              107,773          106,057           76,869         127,876

                                      Baccalaureate and Applied Studies             MacEwan University                                    114,733          111,154            5,810            2,520
                                      Institutions                                  Mount Royal University                                102,022           98,004            4,918          53,116

                                      Polytechnical Institutions                    Northern Alberta Institute of Technology              189,346          190,280           79,484          41,363
                                                                                    Southern Alberta Institute of Technology              173,884          167,328           17,680          12,238

                                      Comprehensive Community                       Bow Valley College                                      49,208          45,018              852              345
                                      Institutions                                  Grande Prairie Regional College                         48,508          47,828            5,430            5,721

                                                                                    Keyano College                                          38,904          38,258            5,561          12,897
                                                                                    Lakeland College                                        36,623          36,180           12,762            3,687
                                                                                    Lethbridge College                                      48,840          47,362           17,630          18,478
                                                                                    Medicine Hat College                                    34,004          32,792            1,348              922
                                                                                    NorQuest College                                        55,977          49,307           41,417          61,989
                                                                                    Northern Lakes College                                  34,636          33,268            5,527            3,457
                                                                                    Olds College                                            31,343          30,600            7,194            1,300
                                                                                    Portage College                                         25,124          23,671            2,981            1,617
                                                                                    Red Deer College                                        55,411          53,768            4,402          23,142

                                      Specialized Arts and Culture                  Alberta College of Art + Design                         15,533          15,092            3,181              354
                                      Institutions                                  Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity                    17,607          20,654            4,212            3,199

                                      Total Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                          2,390,046        2,346,448         498,685          519,666

                                      Independent Academic Institutions             Ambrose University                                       2,910            2,769              —                —
                                                                                    Burman University                                        3,281            3,156              —                —
                                                                                    Concordia University of Edmonton                        12,844          12,489               —                —
                                                                                    St. Mary’s University                                    3,761            3,596              —                —
                                                                                    The King’s University                                    4,821            4,663              —                —

                                      Other Colleges                                Maskwachees Cultural College                               876              796              —                —
                                                                                    Mikai Sto Foundation                                       781              790              —                —
                                                                                    Nechi Institution                                          200               —               —                —
                                                                                    Old Sun Community College                                  775              796              —                —
                                                                                    Red Crow Community College                                  —                 6              —                —
                                                                                    University nuhelot’įne thaiyots’į                          791              966              —                —
                                                                                    nistameymâkanak Blue Quills
                                                                                    Yellowhead Tribal College                                  781              796              —                —

                                  Total Funding Provided to Post-Secondary Institutions                                               $ 2,421,867     $  2,377,271     $   498,685     $    519,666

                                  (1)   Includes funding to these entities from all department programs.

---PDF PAGE 57---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                Ministry of Advanced Education                                 53







                       Ministry of Advanced Education
                       Consolidated Financial Statements
                       March 31, 2018                                                                                      Audited Information
                         Independent Auditor’s Report                                                                                   54
                         Consolidated Statement of Operations                                                                           55
                         Consolidated Statement of Financial Position                                                                   56
                         Consolidated Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets                                                       57
                         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                                                                           58
                         Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements                                                                 59
                         Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements

                           1    Consolidated Revenues                                                                                   75

                           2    Consolidated Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                            76

                           3    Consolidated Allocated Costs                                                                            76

                           4    Consolidated Portfolio Investments                                                                      77

                           5    Equity in Government Business Enterprises                                                               78

                           6    Related Party Transactions                                                                              79

                           7    Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements                                              80

---PDF PAGE 58---
54                                               Ministry of Advanced Education                                                Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018








                            Independent Auditor’s Report


                             To the Members of the Legislative Assembly


                             Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
                             I have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Ministry of Advanced Education, which
                             comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at March 31, 2018, and the consolidated statements of
                             operations, change in net financial assets and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant
                             accounting policies and other explanatory information.
                             Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
                             Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in
                             accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management
                             determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material
                             misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
                             Auditor’s Responsibility
                             My responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted
                             my audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply
                             with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
                             consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
                             An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
                             consolidated financial statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the
                             assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or
                             error.  In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and
                             fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
                             the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal
                             control.  An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of
                             accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
                             financial statements.
                             I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                             Opinion
                             In my opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
                             the Ministry of Advanced Education as at March 31, 2018, and the results of its operations, its changes in net financial
                             assets and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.



                             [Original signed by W. Doug Wylie FCPA, FCMA, ICD.D]
                             Auditor General
                             June 6, 2018
                             Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 59---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                                  Ministry of Advanced Education                                                              55

                                 Consolidated Statement of Operations
                                 for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                         (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                    2018                     2017
                                                                                                                          Budget            Actual          Actual
                                                                                                                                                          (Restated Note 4)

                                   Revenues (Note 2(b) and Schedule 1)
                                      Government Transfers
                                           Government of Alberta Grants                                                 $   563,410     $    380,592     $    370,755
                                          Federal and Other Government Grants                                               458,651          532,883          507,045
                                      Investment Income                                                                     181,985          231,236          232,868
                                      Gain (Loss) from Government Business Enterprises (Schedule 5)                               —             3,610           (1,777)
                                      Premiums, Fees and Licences                                                              4,855            5,665            4,751
                                      Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                                      1,222,908        1,201,554        1,168,827
                                      Sales, Rentals and Services                                                           618,845          593,765          612,217
                                      Donations, Grants and Contributions                                                   327,574          359,417          322,414
                                      Other Revenue                                                                           71,631         207,540          152,280
                                                                                                                          3,449,859        3,516,262        3,369,380

                                   Expenses – Directly Incurred (Note 2(b) and Schedules 2 and 3)
                                      Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                  5,624,723        5,681,090        5,480,194
                                      Department
                                          Ministry Support Services                                                           27,040          25,995           26,455
                                          Support for Adult Learning                                                          81,634          79,641           78,666
                                          Apprenticeship Delivery                                                             46,372          41,901           40,694
                                          Student Aid                                                                       251,937          216,732          230,011
                                          Foundational Learning Supports                                                      84,787          91,659           78,776
                                                                                                                          6,116,493        6,137,018        5,934,796

                                   Annual Deficit                                                                       $(2,666,634)    $(2,620,756)     $(2,565,416)

                                   The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 60---
56                                                          Ministry of Advanced Education                                                                  Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                   Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
                                   as at March 31, 2018                                                                                                                                            (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                 2018              2017
                                                                                                                                                (Restated Note 4)

                                     Financial Assets
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents (Note 5)                                                  $     770,740     $     705,267
                                        Accounts Receivable (Note 6)                                                              318,321           315,278
                                        Portfolio Investments (Schedule 4)
                                            Non-Endowment (Schedule 4)                                                          2,660,005         2,719,848
                                            Restricted for Endowments (Schedule 4)                                              2,333,602         2,165,779
                                        Equity in Government Business Enterprises (Schedule 5)                                      12,214           11,498
                                        Loans Receivables (Note 7)                                                              2,547,100         2,155,514
                                        Inventories for Resale                                                                      19,406           27,631
                                                                                                                                8,661,388         8,100,815

                                     Liabilities
                                        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities (Note 10)                                        965,543           917,142
                                        Debt (Note 11)                                                                          1,080,264         1,098,703
                                        Deferred Contributions (Note 12)                                                          845,657           799,179
                                        Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions (Note 12)                                            45,578           80,013
                                        Pension Liabilities (Note 13)                                                             264,373           288,364
                                                                                                                                3,201,415         3,183,401

                                     Net Financial Assets                                                                       5,459,973         4,917,414

                                     Non-Financial Assets
                                        Tangible Capital Assets (Note 14)                                                       8,655,287         8,240,645
                                        Inventories of Supplies                                                                      2,949             2,924
                                        Prepaid Expenses                                                                            44,638           54,241
                                                                                                                                8,702,874         8,297,810

                                     Net Assets Before Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                   14,162,847        13,215,224
                                     Spent Deferred Capital Contributions (Note 12)                                             1,528,887         1,399,701

                                     Net Assets                                                                             $12,633,960       $11,815,523

                                     Net Assets
                                        Net Assets, Beginning of Year (Note 4)                                              $11,815,523       $10,892,191
                                        Annual Deficit                                                                         (2,620,756)       (2,565,416)
                                        Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                                            3,439,193         3,488,748

                                        Net Assets, End of Year (Note 15)                                                   $12,633,960       $11,815,523

                                     Contingent Assets and Contractual Rights (Notes 8 and 9)
                                     Contingent Liabilities and Contractual Obligations (Notes 16 and 17)
                                     The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 61---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                                  Ministry of Advanced Education                                                             57

                                 Consolidated Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets
                                 for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                                                                                                                   2018                     2017
                                                                                                         Budget           Actual           Actual
                                                                                                                                         (Restated Note 4)

                                      Annual Deficit                                                  $(2,666,634)     $(2,620,756)     $(2,565,416)
                                      Acquisition of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 14)                  (1,051,095)        (924,387)        (724,266)
                                      Donation of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 14)                                           (8,624)         (6,558)
                                      Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 14)                    523,186          501,403         506,667
                                      Loss on Disposal of Tangible Capital Assets                                            13,491            5,888
                                      Proceeds on Sale of Tangible Capital Assets                                             3,475            8,554
                                      Tangible Capital Assets Held for Sale                                                       —            4,674
                                      Increase in Inventories of Supplies                                                        (25)           (185)
                                      Decrease (Increase) in Prepaid Expenses                                                 9,603             (282)
                                      Increase in Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                      129,186           13,599
                                      Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                                        3,439,193       3,488,748

                                   Increase in Net Financial Assets                                                         542,559         731,423

                                   Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                                4,917,414       4,185,991

                                   Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                                   $  5,459,973     $ 4,917,414

                                   The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 62---
58                                                         Ministry of Advanced Education                                                                Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                                  for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                             (in thousands)

                                                                                                                               2018              2017
                                                                                                                                             (Restated Note 4)

                                    Operating Transactions
                                        Annual Deficit                                                                     $(2,620,756)      $(2,565,416)
                                        Non-Cash Items included in Net Operating Results
                                           Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 14)                                    501,403          506,667
                                           Deferred Capital Contributions Recognized as Revenue (Note 12)                      (122,755)        (117,972)
                                          (Gain) Loss from Government Business Enterprises (Schedule 5)                           (3,610)           1,777
                                           Gain on Sale of Portfolio Investments                                                 (57,840)       (144,134)
                                           Write-down and Loss on Disposal of Tangible Capital Assets                            13,491             5,888
                                           Donation of Capital Assets (Note 14)                                                   (8,624)          (6,558)
                                           Valuation Adjustments
                                              Provision for Employee Future Benefits                                             (23,991)         (10,137)
                                              Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                                  46,994            62,726
                                              Student Loans Valuation Adjustments                                                 (9,845)          (8,730)
                                              Provision for Vacation Pay and Other Provisions                                      9,755           11,482
                                                                                                                             (2,275,778)      (2,264,407)

                                        Increase in Accounts Receivable                                                           (3,043)         (35,978)
                                        Decrease (Increase) in Prepaid Expenses                                                    9,603              (282)
                                        Decrease in Inventories for Resale                                                         8,225           12,857
                                        Increase in Inventories of Supplies                                                           (25)            (185)
                                        Increase in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                     38,646          122,760
                                        Increase (Decrease) in Deferred Revenue                                                 113,262           (80,607)
                                        Cash Applied to Operating Transactions                                               (2,109,110)      (2,245,842)

                                    Capital Transactions
                                        Acquisition of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 14)                                       (924,387)        (724,266)
                                        Proceeds on Sale/Disposal of Tangible Capital Assets                                       3,475            8,554
                                        Cash Applied to Capital Transactions                                                   (920,912)        (715,712)

                                    Investing Transactions
                                        Student Loan Disbursements                                                             (614,398)        (645,385)
                                        Student Loan Repayments                                                                 185,663          159,224
                                        Purchases of Portfolio Investments                                                   (1,076,635)      (1,083,879)
                                        Proceeds on Sale of Portfolio Investments                                             1,026,495          944,976
                                        Repayments from Government Business Enterprises                                            2,894            1,077
                                        Cash Applied to Investing Transactions                                                 (475,981)        (623,987)

                                    Financing Transactions
                                        Contributions Restricted for Capital (Note 12)                                          150,722          115,747
                                        Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                                          3,439,193        3,488,748
                                        Debt Issues                                                                             247,680          162,504
                                        Debt Retirement                                                                        (266,119)          (50,888)
                                        Cash Provided by Financing Transactions                                               3,571,476        3,716,111

                                    Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents                                                        65,473          130,570
                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                                705,267          574,697

                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                                 $    770,740      $   705,267

                                    The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 63---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                   Ministry of Advanced Education                                                59

                             Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
                             March 31, 2018

                  Note 1     Authority and Purpose
                             The Ministry of Advanced Education operates under the authority of the Government Organization Act and its
                             regulations and has been designated responsibilities for various Acts.  Below are the organizations that form the
                             Ministry of Advanced Education and the authority under which each organization operates.  Schedule 7 provides a
                             detailed listing of entities included in the organizational groupings.

                              Organization                               Authority
                              Department of Advanced Education           Government Organization Act
                              Access to the Future Fund                  Access to the Future Act
                              Public Post-secondary Institutions         Post-secondary Learning Act

                             In support of Alberta’s vision, Advanced Education’s purpose is to strive to engage Albertans in learning to build a
                             resilient economy and thriving society.

                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices
                             These consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting
                             standards.
                      (a)    Reporting Entity and Method of Consolidation
                             The reporting entity is the Ministry of Advanced Education, for which the Minister of Advanced Education is
                             accountable.  The accounts of the Ministry are fully consolidated which includes the Department and the entities
                             listed in Schedule 7 on a line-by-line basis except for government business enterprises.  Under this method,
                             accounting policies of the consolidated entities are adjusted to conform to government accounting policies and the
                             results of each line item in their financial statements (revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities) are included in
                             government’s results.
                             Organizations that the Ministry controls for reporting purposes through its consolidated organizations, but that do
                             not meet the materiality threshold of $6 million in assets, liabilities, revenues or expenses after eliminating
                             inter-entity transactions and balances are not consolidated in these financial statements.  These organizations are
                             analyzed yearly to determine if they have met the materiality threshold and after two years of exceeding the
                             threshold will be considered for consolidation.
                             Revenue and expense, capital, investing and financing transactions and related asset and liability balances between
                            the consolidated entities have been eliminated.  Accounting policies have been adjusted to conform with those of the
                            Ministry.
                            The year-end for the Access to the Future Fund, University of Alberta, University of Calgary, University of Lethbridge,
                            Athabasca University and The Banff Centre is March 31.
                            The year-end for colleges, technical institutes, MacEwan University and Mount Royal University is June 30.
                            Transactions of these organizations that have occurred between the period July 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018, and are
                            $1 million or greater that significantly affect the consolidated accounts, have been recorded.
                            All the organizations are fully consolidated except for government business enterprises (GBEs) which are reported on
                            a modified equity basis (see Schedule 5), with the equity being computed in accordance with the accounting
                            standards applicable to those entities.  Under the modified equity method, the accounting policies of the GBEs are
                            not adjusted to conform to those of the other government organizations.  Inter-sector revenue and expense
                            transactions and related assets and liability balances are not eliminated.
                      (b)   Basis of Financial Reporting
                            Revenues
                            All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services have not been
                            provided by year end is recognized as unearned revenue.
                            Investment income earned from restricted sources is deferred and recognized when the stipulations imposed have
                            been met.  Gains and losses on investments are not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations until
                            realized.
                            Endowment contributions, matching contributions, and associated investment income allocated for preservation of
                            endowment capital purchasing power are recognized as “Other Revenue” in the Consolidated Statement of
                            Operations in the period in which they are received.

---PDF PAGE 64---
60                                                Ministry of Advanced Education                                                   Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018



                    Note 2   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                        (b)  Basis of Financial Reporting (continued)
                             Government Transfers
                             Transfers from all levels of governments are referred to as government transfers.
                             Government transfers and the associated externally restricted investment income are recognized as deferred capital
                             contributions or deferred revenue if the eligibility criteria for use of the transfer, or the stipulations together with the
                             Ministry’s actions and communications as to the use of the transfer, create a liability.  These transfers are recognized
                             as revenue as the stipulations are met and, when applicable, the Ministry complies with its communicated use of
                             these transfers.
                             All other government transfers, without stipulations for use of the transfer, are recognized as revenue when the
                             transfer is authorized and the Ministry meets the eligibility criteria (if any).
                             Donations and Non-Government Grants
                             Donations and non-government grants are received from individuals, corporations, and private sector not-for-profit
                             organizations.  Donations and non-government grants may be unrestricted or externally restricted for operating or
                             capital purposes.  Unrestricted donations and non-government grants are recognized as revenue in the year received
                             or in the year the funds are committed and the amounts can be reasonably estimated and collection is reasonably
                             assured.
                             Externally restricted donations, non-government grants, and realized gains and losses for the associated externally
                             restricted investment income are recognized as deferred revenue if the term for their use, or the terms along with the
                             Ministry’s actions and communications as to the use, create a liability.  These resources are recognized as the terms
                             are met and, when applicable, the Ministry complies with its communicated use.
                             Grants and Donations for Land
                             The Ministry recognizes transfers and donations for the purchase of land as a liability when received, and as revenue
                             when the Ministry purchases the land.  The Ministry recognizes in-kind contributions of land as revenue at the fair
                             value of the land.  When the Ministry cannot determine the fair value, it records such in-kind contributions at a
                             nominal value.
                             Expenses
                             Directly Incurred
                             Directly incurred expenses are those costs the Ministry has primary responsibility and accountability for, as reflected
                             in the government’s budget documents.
                             Grants are recognized as expenses when authorized and the eligibility criteria, if any, are met and a reasonable
                             estimate of the amounts can be made.
                             In addition to program operating expenses such as salaries and supplies, etc., directly incurred expenses also include:

                             „   amortization of tangible capital assets;

                             „   inventory consumed;
                             „   pension costs which comprise the cost of employer contributions for current service of employees during the year;

                             „   valuation adjustments which include changes in the valuation allowances used to reflect financial assets at their
                                  net recoverable or other appropriate value.  Valuation adjustments also represent the change in management’s
                                  estimate of future payments arising from obligations relating to Universities Academic Pension Plan, student loans
                                  and vacation pay; and

                             „   transfer of tangible capital assets to other ministries.
                             Incurred by Others
                             Services contributed by other related entities in support of the Ministry’s operations are not recognized but disclosed
                             in Schedule 3.
                             Valuation of Financial Assets and Liabilities
                             Fair value is the amount of consideration agreed upon in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing
                             parties who are under no compulsion to act.
                             The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, loans, accounts payable and accrued liabilities are
                             estimated to approximate their carrying values because of the short-term nature of these instruments.  The fair value
                             of debt approximates its carrying value as interest rates approximate the market value.  Fair values of loans and
                             liability for student loans issued are not reported as there is no organized financial market for the instruments and it is
                             not practicable within constraints of timeliness or cost to estimate the fair value with sufficient reliability.

---PDF PAGE 65---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                      Ministry of Advanced Education                                                  61



                    Note 2   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                        (b)  Basis of Financial Reporting (continued)
                             Financial Assets
                             Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                             for consumption in the normal course of operations.
                             Financial assets are the Ministry's financial claims on external organizations and individuals, and inventories for resale
                             at the year end.
                             Cash and Cash Equivalents
                             Cash comprises of cash on hand and demand deposits.  Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments
                             that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
                             Cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term commitments rather than for investment purposes.
                             Accounts Receivable
                             Accounts receivables are recognized at the lower of cost or net recoverable value.  A valuation allowance is recognized
                             when recovery is uncertain.
                             Portfolio Investments
                             Portfolio investments are reported at cost, or amortized cost, less any write-downs associated with a loss in value that
                             is other than a temporary decline.  A write-down of a portfolio investment to reflect a loss in value is not reversed for a
                             subsequent increase in value.  Gains and losses on investments are recognized when an investment is sold or when
                             there is a permanent impairment in the value of an investment.
                             Portfolio investments restricted for endowments are from donors that have placed restrictions on their contributions
                             to the endowments, for example capital preservation.  The principal restriction is that the original contribution should
                             be maintained intact in perpetuity.  Other restrictions may include spending investment income earned by
                             endowments for specific operational or capital purposes, or capitalizing a certain amount of investment income to
                             maintain and grow the real value of endowments.
                             Loans Receivable
                             Loans Receivable are recognized at cost net of allowances for impaired loans, loan subsidy and repayment assistance.
                             The change in the allowances reflects the provision for default, subsidy assistance, limitations and write-offs of loans
                             under the Student Financial Assistance Act (Note 7).
                             Inventories for Resale
                             Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value.  Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis.
                             Assets Held for Sale
                             Assets held for sale that are expected to be sold within one year are considered financial assets.  They are valued at
                             the lower of cost or expected net realizable value.  Cost includes amounts for improvements to prepare the assets for
                             sale.
                             Liabilities
                             Liabilities represent present obligations of the Ministry to external organizations and individuals arising from
                             transactions or events occurring before the year end, the settlement of which is expected to result in the future
                             sacrifice of economic benefits.  They are recognized when there is an appropriate basis of measurement and
                             management can reasonably estimate the amount.
                             Liabilities also include:

                             „   all financial claims payable by the Ministry at the year end;

                             „   accrued employee vacation entitlements; and

                             „   contingent liabilities where future liabilities are likely.
                             Debt
                             Notes, debentures, and mortgages are recognized at their face amount less unamortized discount, which includes
                             issue expenses.
                             Deferred Revenue
                             Where the Ministry has received restricted contributions, which have not been fully used in the period, this gives rise
                             to deferred revenue.

---PDF PAGE 66---
62                                                 Ministry of Advanced Education                                                    Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018



                    Note 2    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                        (b)   Basis of Financial Reporting (continued)
                              Liability for Contaminated Sites
                              Contaminated sites are a result of contamination of a chemical, organic or radioactive material or live organism that
                              exceeds an environmental standard, being introduced into soil, water or sediment.  The liability is recognized net of
                              any expected recoveries.  A liability for remediation of contaminated sites normally results from operation(s) that is no
                              longer in productive use and is recognized when all of the following criteria are met:
                              i)      an environmental standard exists;
                              ii)     contamination exceeds the environmental standard;
                              iii)    Ministry of Advanced Education is directly responsible or accepts responsibility;
                              iv)    it is expected that future economic benefits will be given up; and
                              v)     a reasonable estimate of the amount can be made.
                              Asset Retirement Obligations
                              Liabilities are recognized for statutory, contractual or legal obligations, associated with the retirement of tangible
                              capital assets when those obligations result from the acquisition, construction, development or normal operation of
                              the assets.  The obligations are measured initially at fair value, determined using present value methodology, and the
                              resulting costs capitalized into the carrying amount of the related asset.
                              In subsequent periods, the liability is adjusted for the accretion of discount and any changes in the amount or timing
                              of the underlying future cash flows.  The capitalized asset retirement cost is amortized on the same basis as the
                              related asset and the discount accretion is included in determining the results of operations.
                              Non-Financial Assets
                              Non-financial assets are acquired, constructed, or developed assets that do not normally provide resources to
                              discharge existing liabilities, but instead:
                              (a)    are normally employed to deliver government services;
                              (b)   may be consumed in the normal course of operations; and
                              (c)    are not for sale in the normal course of operations.
                              Non-financial assets are limited to tangible capital assets, inventories of supplies and prepaid expenses.
                              Tangible Capital Assets
                              Tangible capital assets of the Ministry are recognized at historical cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over the
                              estimated useful life of the assets.  Donated tangible capital assets are recorded at their fair value at the time of
                              contribution.  The thresholds for capitalization, as determined by the entities, are $1,000 to $250,000 for new systems
                              development and $1,000 to $100,000 for major enhancements.  The threshold for all other tangible capital assets, as
                              determined by the entities, is $1,000 to $15,000.  All land, with exception of Crown lands, is capitalized.
                              Amortization is only charged if the tangible capital asset is put into service.
                              When physical assets (tangible capital assets and inventories) are gifted or sold for a nominal sum, the net book value
                              of these physical assets less any nominal proceeds are recognized as grants in kind.  Unrealized gains and losses on
                              transfers to controlled entities are eliminated on consolidation.
                              Post-secondary institutions have collections consisting of historical artifacts and provincial, national and international
                              works of art.  The value of these collections is not recognized in the consolidated financial statements.  Contributed
                              tangible capital assets from non-related entities are recognized at their fair value at the time of contribution.
                              Inventories of Supplies
                              Inventories of supplies are valued at the lower of cost and replacement cost.  Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out
                              basis.
                              Prepaid Expenses
                              Prepaid expenses are recognized at cost and amortized based on the terms of the agreement.
                              Other Assets
                              Intangible assets, inherited natural resources, Crown lands, art and historic treasures and assets acquired by right are
                              not recognized in these consolidated financial statements because a reasonable estimate of the amount involved
                              cannot be made.

---PDF PAGE 67---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                    Ministry of Advanced Education                                                  63



                    Note 2   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                       (b)   Basis of Financial Reporting (continued)
                             Payments under Agreement
                             The Ministry entered into agreements with the federal government to provide services on its behalf.
                             Expenses incurred and revenue earned in the provision of services under these agreements are recorded in the
                             records of the service providers and are not included in these consolidated financial statements.  Amounts paid and
                             recovered under agreements are disclosed in Note 18.
                             Measurement Uncertainty (in thousands)
                             Measurement uncertainty exists when there is variance between the recognized or disclosed amount and another
                             reasonably possible amount.
                             The areas subject to measurement uncertainty are net student loans receivable of $2,547,100 (2017 - $2,155,514)
                             (Note 7) after adjusting for the following:

                             „   allowance for impaired loans amounting to $241,745 (2017 - $227,253);
                             „   allowance for loan subsidy amounting to $34,009 (2017 - $32,106); and

                             „   allowance for repayment assistance amounting to $8,806 (2017 - $6,440).
                             The allowances are used to reflect loans receivable at the lower of cost and net recoverable value.  Changes to the
                             allowances are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations to the provision for the future cost of student
                             loans issued.
                             In the current year, $46,994 (2017 - $62,726) was recorded as the provision for the future cost of student loans issued
                             to reflect the change in the allowances.
                             The Ministry has made certain estimates in the following areas:

                             „   Recovery and default rates in the determination of the allowance for impaired loans;

                             „   Blended student lending rate, the annual average provincial borrowing rate, the average repayment period,
                                 default rate, and repayment assistance rate in the determination of the allowance for loan subsidy; and

                             „   Future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates in the determination of the
                                 allowance for repayment assistance.
                             The impact of changes in estimates would affect the total student loan provision as follows:
                             „   An increase or decrease of 0.25% to the default rate would respectively increase or decrease the provision by
                                  $6,700 (14.3%).
                             „   An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the provincial borrowing rate would respectively increase or decrease the
                                  provision by $9,100 (19.4%).
                             „   An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the student lending rate would respectively increase or decrease the provision
                                  by $6,700 (14.3%).
                             „   An increase or decrease of 1% in the repayment assistance amounts or loan forgiveness rate would have a minimal
                                  impact on the calculated provision.
                             Sensitivity analysis is based on assumptions which may not necessarily be linear. Although some of the other
                             variables mentioned above were not applied in the calculations of the sensitivity, actual experience has shown that
                             changes in one variable may amplify or suppress changes in another which would impact the overall result differently
                             from the projected outcome.
                             With respect to the Universities Academic Pension Plan, the plan’s actuary has made certain estimates and
                             assumptions in the determination of the March 31, 2018 extrapolated results.  Refer to Note 13 for these assumptions.
                             Changes in these estimates could materially impact the unfunded liability for the Universities Academic Pension Plan.

---PDF PAGE 68---
64                                               Ministry of Advanced Education                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018



                   Note 2    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                       (b)   Basis of Financial Reporting (continued)
                             Government Endowment Fund for Scholarships (in thousands)
                             The Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund operates under the Alberta Heritage Scholarship Act for the purpose of
                             investing the endowment funds to make income available for scholarships.
                             The Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance controls this endowment.  However the Ministry of Advanced Education
                             has an economic interest in the endowment as it assists in funding Ministry programs.  Additional information on the
                             endowment can be found in the financial statements for Alberta Treasury Board and Finance.

                                                                                                 Net Assets
                                                                                     2018                         2017
                                                                          Value at Cost   Fair Value   Value at Cost   Fair Value

                              Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund           $ 1,269,328    $ 1,350,655   $ 1,205,282    $ 1,301,116

                       (c)   Change in Accounting Policy
                             The ministry has prospectively adopted the following standards from April 1, 2017: PS 2200 Related Party Disclosures,
                             PS 3420 Inter-Entity Transactions, PS 3210 Assets, PS 3320 Contingent Assets and PS 3380 Contractual Rights which
                             are reflected in Note 2, Note 8, Note 9, Schedule 2, Schedule 3 and Schedule 6.

                  Note 3     Future Accounting Changes
                             The Public Sector Accounting Board has approved the following accounting standards:

                             „   PS 3430 Restructuring Transactions (effective April 1, 2018)
                                 This standard provides guidance on how to account for and report restructuring transactions by both transferors
                                 and recipients of assets and/or liabilities, together with related program or operating responsibilities.

                             „   PS 3280 Asset Retirement Obligations (effective April 1, 2021)
                                 This standard provides guidance on how to account for and report a liability for retirement of a tangible capital
                                 asset.
                             „   PS 3450 Financial Instruments (effective April 1, 2021)
                                 The Ministry has not yet adopted this standard and has the option of adopting it in fiscal year 2019-20 or earlier.
                                 Adoption of this standard requires corresponding adoption of: PS 2601, Foreign Currency Translation; PS 1201,
                                 Financial Statement Presentation; and PS 3041, Portfolio Investments in the same fiscal period.  These standards
                                 provide guidance on: recognition, measurement, and disclosure of financial instruments; standards on how to
                                 account for and report transactions that are denominated in a foreign currency; general reporting principles and
                                 standards for the disclosure of information in financial statements; and how to account for and report portfolio
                                 investments.
                                 Management is currently assessing the impact of these standards on the financial statements.

                  Note 4     Program Transfers and Correction of a Prior Year Misstatement                                                                       (in thousands)
                             Effective September 1, 2017, Communications and Public Engagement branches were transferred from each Ministry
                             to the Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance.  Comparatives for 2017 have been restated as if the current
                             organization structure had always been the same.  The impact is a decrease in accounts payable by $146 to $771,067
                             from $771,213.
                             During the year a review completed by a post-secondary institution determined amounts within the deferred revenue
                             balance did not meet the requirements for liability recognition.  The review identified deferred revenue amounts that
                             should have been recorded into revenue in the prior fiscal years when the amounts were received or when the
                             obligations of the liability were met.  The consolidated impacts for the Ministry are:

                             „   Deferred revenue decreased by $92,052 to $945,254 from $1,037,306;

                             „   Spent deferred capital decreased by $2,567 to $1,399,701 from $1,402,268; and
                             „   Unspent deferred capital contributions decreased by $31 to $80,013 from $80,044.

---PDF PAGE 69---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                             Ministry of Advanced Education                                                        65



                     Note 4     Program Transfers and Correction of a Prior Year Misstatement (continued)                                                                        (in thousands)
                                The impact of the program transfers and the correction of the prior year misstatement on opening net assets and net
                                financial assets as at April 1, 2016 are as follows:

                                 Net assets as at April 1, 2016
                                 Net assets as previously reported by the Ministry of Advanced Education                         $10,812,325
                                    Transfer to the Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance                                                134
                                    Post-secondary institution correction of a prior year misstatement                                 79,732

                                 Net assets of the Ministry of Advanced Education restated as at April 1, 2016                   $10,892,191


                                 Net financial assets as at April 1, 2016
                                 Net financial assets as previously reported by the Ministry of Advanced Education               $  4,106,125
                                    Transfer to the Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance                                                134
                                    Post-secondary institution correction of a prior year misstatement                                 79,732

                                 Net financial assets of the Ministry of Advanced Education restated as at April 1, 2016         $  4,185,991

                                The impact of the prior year adjustment is an increase of $14,918 in revenue and the impact of the program transfers
                                is a decrease of $1,549 in expenses.  The combined impact of these restatements on the annual deficit is a decrease by
                                $16,467 to $2,565,416 from $2,581,883.  There is a reclassification per Note 21 that has increased accounts payables
                                by $146,075 to $917,142 and decreased deferred revenue by $146,075 to $799,179.

                    Note 5      Cash and Cash Equivalents                                                                                                                        (in thousands)
                                Cash and cash equivalents include deposits in the Consolidated Cash Investment Trust Fund (CCITF) of the Province of
                                Alberta.  The CCITF is managed with the objective of providing competitive interest income to depositors while
                                maintaining appropriate security and liquidity of depositors’ capital.  The portfolio is comprised of high quality,
                                short-term securities with a maximum term to maturity of three years.  As at March 31, 2018, securities held by the
                                fund have a time-weighted return of 1.1% (2017 - 0.9%) per annum.  Due to the short-term nature of CCITF
                                investments, the carrying value approximates fair value.

                                                                     2018            2017

                                 Cash (2)                        $    679,819    $    558,158
                                 Cash Equivalents (1) (2)              90,921         147,109

                                                                 $    770,740    $    705,267

                                (1)   Cash equivalents include money market funds, short-term notes and treasury bills.
                                (2)   Cash and cash equivalents includes externally restricted cash of $61,991.

                    Note 6      Accounts Receivable                                                                                                                              (in thousands)

                                                                                     2018                            2017
                                                                                  Allowance           Net             Net
                                                                     Gross       for Doubtful     Realizable      Realizable
                                                                   Amount          Accounts          Value           Value

                                 Accounts Receivable             $    326,133    $      (7,812)  $    318,321    $    315,278

                                Accounts receivable are unsecured and non-interest bearing.

---PDF PAGE 70---
66                                                 Ministry of Advanced Education                                                  Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                  Note 7     Loans Receivable                                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                                                                               2018           2017

                               Loans Receivable                             $ 2,831,660    $ 2,421,313
                                  Less:
                                  Allowance for Impaired Loans                 (241,745)      (227,253)
                                  Allowance for Loan Subsidy                    (34,009)       (32,106)
                                  Allowance for Repayment Assistance              (8,806)        (6,440)

                                                                            $ 2,547,100    $ 2,155,514

                             Program and Repayments
                             Under the Alberta Student Aid Program, loans are provided by the Ministry to qualifying students on terms prescribed
                             by the Minister of Advanced Education.
                             Loans are unsecured and are repayable to a maximum term of 114 months.  The interest rates on student loans are a
                             floating rate of prime or a fixed rate of prime plus 2%, however:

                             „   Students are not expected to make repayments while in school.

                             „   Loans become payable and interest is earned starting six months after students graduate or discontinue their
                                  studies.

                             „   Students could apply for Government Repayment Assistance Program if they qualify and satisfy the conditions.

                             „   Loans are classified as impaired, with the following conditions:
                                  „   there is no longer reasonable assurance as to the timely collection of the full amount of principal or interest; or

                                  „   the borrower has failed to make payments for a period of 150 days; or

                                  „   interest is owing to the Province for a period of 180 days.
                             Allowances
                             The allowance for impaired loans is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be impaired.
                             The key assumptions used to determine this provision are default rates of 5.4% (2017 - 6.1%) and recovery rates of
                             26.7% (2017 - 28.5%).
                             The allowance for loan subsidy is a provision that reflects the future benefit provided to students.  This benefit is a
                             result of favorable loan terms where the Ministry does not receive interest payments over the term of the loans to
                             fully cover the Ministry’s cost of financing the loan portfolio.  Changes in future year estimates are expensed and
                             amortized on the allowance for loan subsidy over the estimated life of the student loan.  The key assumptions used to
                             determine this provision are a blended student lending rate of 3.3% (2017 - 3.2%), the annual average provincial
                             borrowing rate of 2.6% (2017 - 2.5%), the average repayment period of 9 years (2017 - 9 years), default rate
                             assumptions, and Repayment Assistance Plan rate assumptions.
                             The allowance for repayment assistance is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be
                             forgiven by the Ministry through the repayment assistance program.  The key assumptions used to determine this
                             provision are the future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates of 9.2%
                             (2017 - 8.5%).
                             Repayment Terms (in thousands)
                             Following is the repayment term for loans due starting six months after graduation or discontinuation of studies, or in
                             the Repayment Assistance program.

                                                                               Total
                                                Principal      Interest      Payments

                               2018-19        $   167,701    $     5,484    $   173,185
                               2019-20            160,272          5,241        165,513
                               2020-21            156,575          5,120        161,695
                               2021-22            151,075          4,940        156,015
                               2022-23            142,843          4,671        147,514
                               Thereafter         370,459         12,114        382,573

                                              $ 1,148,925    $    37,570    $ 1,186,495

                             All other loans are excluded as no terms of repayment have been established.

---PDF PAGE 71---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                         Ministry of Advanced Education                                                      67


                   Note 8     Contingent Assets
                              The Ministry has initiated legal matters and insurance claims where possible assets are being sought.  The outcomes
                              from these matters may result in assets in the future.  Contingent Assets are not recognized in the Ministry financial
                              statements.

                   Note 9     Contractual Rights                                                                                                                           (in thousands)
                              Contractual rights are rights of the Ministry to economic resources arising from contracts or agreements that will
                              result in both assets and revenues in the future when the terms of those contracts or agreements are met.

                                                                                                                                                2018           2017

                                Contractual Rights from Operating Leases and Contracts                                                      $    325,750    $   380,159
                                Contractual Rights from Capital Leases for Operation, Maintenance and Interest Amounts                            39,830         18,207

                                                                                                                                            $    365,580    $   398,366

                              Estimated amounts that will be received or receivable for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:

                                                                                Operation, Maintenance
                                                    Operating Leases             and Interest Amounts
                                                      and Contracts               from Capital Leases         2018 Total

                                2018-19                $   190,225                    $      1,597           $    191,822
                                2019-20                      30,966                          1,938                 32,904
                                2020-21                      16,970                          2,230                 19,200
                                2021-22                      15,156                          2,250                 17,406
                                2022-23                      14,560                          2,291                 16,851
                                Thereafter                   57,873                         29,524                 87,397

                                                       $   325,750                    $     39,830           $    365,580


                 Note 10      Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                   2018           2017
                                                                               (Restated Note 4)

                                Accounts Payable               $    12,035    $     11,773
                                Unearned Revenue                   150,068         146,075
                                Accrued Liabilities                803,440         759,294

                                                               $   965,543    $    917,142

---PDF PAGE 72---
68                                                         Ministry of Advanced Education                                                               Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                   Note 11        Debt                                                                                                                                                         (in thousands)

                                                                                                                      2018                                       2017
                                                                                                                             Average
                                                                                                  Maturity                Interest Rate     Book Value        Book Value
                                                                                                                                                  (2)              (2)

                                    Debentures (1)                                           Up to March 2048                    3.33%      $ 1,066,698      $  1,089,147
                                    Bank Loan                                                    March 2040                      3.18%              4,751            3,502
                                                                                                                                              1,071,449         1,092,649

                                    Liabilities under Capital Leases (3)                                                                            8,815            6,054

                                                                                                                                            $ 1,080,264      $  1,098,703

                                  (1)   Debentures are payable to Alberta Capital Finance Authority.
                                  (2)   Book value approximates fair value.
                                  (3)   The calculation of the liabilities under capital leases is as follows:

                                                                                                   2018             2017

                                           Liabilities, Beginning of Year                      $      6,054     $       3,059
                                           Additions to Liabilities during Year                       5,632             4,997
                                           Principal Repayments                                       (2,856)          (2,002)
                                           Others                                                        (15)              —

                                           Liabilities, End of Year                            $      8,815     $       6,054

                                  Principal repayments in each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:

                                    2018-19          $     42,263
                                    2019-20               190,118
                                    2020-21                44,283
                                    2021-22                43,987
                                    2022-23                45,037
                                    Thereafter            714,576

                                                     $  1,080,264

---PDF PAGE 73---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                                   Ministry of Advanced Education                                                               69


                   Note 12        Deferred Contributions                                                                                                                                    (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                                               2018             2017
                                                                                                                                                                             (Restated Note 4)

                                   Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions and Transfers (1)                                                                $     45,578     $     80,013
                                   Spent Deferred Capital Contributions and Transfers (2)                                                                    1,528,887         1,399,701
                                   Deferred Revenue (3)                                                                                                         845,657          799,179

                                                                                                                                                           $ 2,420,122      $  2,278,893


                           (1)     Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions and Transfers                                                       2018                              2017
                                                                                                                        Government
                                                                                                                          of Alberta         Other             Total            Total
                                                                                                                                                                             (Restated Note 4)

                                   Balance, Beginning of Year                                                            $      1,212     $     78,801     $     80,013     $     39,120
                                   Prior Period Adjustments                                                                        (45)              81               36              206
                                   Received/Receivable during Year                                                              1,092         149,630           150,722          115,089
                                   Restricted Realized Investment Income                                                             3             942              945               581
                                   Transferred to Revenue                                                                          (10)        (10,301)         (10,311)           (5,340)
                                   Transferred from Other                                                                           20             367              387               881
                                   Transferred to Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                           (230)        (175,984)        (176,214)         (70,524)

                                   Balance, End of Year                                                                  $      2,042     $     43,536     $     45,578     $     80,013


                           (2)     Spent Deferred Capital Contributions and Transfers                                                         2018                              2017
                                                                                                                        Government
                                                                                                                          of Alberta         Other             Total            Total
                                                                                                                                                                             (Restated Note 4)

                                   Balance, Beginning of Year                                                            $   223,190      $ 1,176,511      $ 1,399,701      $  1,386,102
                                   Prior Period Adjustments                                                                      (311)          19,324           19,013                —
                                   Transferred from Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                                        230         175,984           176,214           70,524
                                   Transferred from Deferred Revenue and Other                                                 11,915           43,973           55,888           62,680
                                   Disposition of Capital Assets                                                                    —              826              826            (1,633)
                                   Less Amounts Recognized as Revenue                                                         (27,576)         (95,179)        (122,755)        (117,972)

                                   Balance, End of Year                                                                  $   207,448      $ 1,321,439      $ 1,528,887      $  1,399,701


                           (3)     Deferred Revenue                                                                                           2018                              2017
                                                                                                                        Government
                                                                                                                          of Alberta         Other             Total            Total
                                                                                                                                                                             (Restated Note 4)

                                   Balance, Beginning of Year                                                            $   151,993      $   647,186      $    799,179     $    779,163
                                   Prior Period Adjustments                                                                     1,703          (14,028)         (12,325)              200
                                   Received/Receivable during the Year, including Investment Earnings                        272,443          790,272        1,062,715         1,006,381
                                   Less Amounts Recognized as Revenue                                                        (246,698)        (698,665)        (945,363)        (927,573)
                                   Transfers                                                                                  (11,811)         (46,738)         (58,549)         (58,992)

                                   Balance, End of Year                                                                  $   167,630      $   678,027      $    845,657     $    799,179

---PDF PAGE 74---
70                                                 Ministry of Advanced Education                                                   Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                 Note 13      Pension Liabilities                                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                                2018           2017

                               Pension Liability
                                  Universities Academic Pension Plan        $   204,902    $   230,232
                                  Supplementary Pension Plans                     59,471         58,132

                                                                            $   264,373    $   288,364
                              Universities Academic Pension Plan
                              The Universities Academic Pension Plan (UAPP) is a joint defined benefit pension plan primarily comprised of
                              academic staff members and other eligible employees of the Universities of Alberta, Calgary, Lethbridge and
                              Athabasca and The Banff Centre (employers).  The Universities Academic Pension Plan Board (the Board) is the trustee
                              and administrator of the UAPP.  The Board operates under the authority of the Employment Pension Plans Act.
                              An actuarial valuation of the UAPP was carried out as at December 31, 2016 and was extrapolated to March 31, 2018
                              using the projected unit cost method prorated on benefits.  The actuarial valuation was based on a number of
                              assumptions about future events, such as inflation rates, interest rates, wage and salary increases, and employee
                              turnover and mortality.  The significant actuarial assumptions used to measure the accrued benefit obligation are as
                              follows:

                                                                                               2018           2017

                               Discount Rate                                                      6.0%           6.0%
                               Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets                             6.0%           6.0%
                               Salary Escalation Rate                                             3.0%           3.0%
                               Real Wage Growth                                                   1.0%           1.0%
                               Inflation Rate                                                     2.0%           2.0%
                               Estimated Average Remaining Service Life (years)                    10.6           10.8

                              The 2017 UAPP Annual Report identifies an unfunded liability at December 31, 2017 in the amount of $952,200
                              (2016 - $874,400).  An actuarial extrapolation of this amount to March 31, 2018, adjusted for public sector reporting
                              standards, estimates the unfunded liability at $446,723 (2017 - $763,861) and unamortized actuarial gain totalling
                              $195,368 (2017 - actuarial gain $36,203).  The following table provides further breakdown of how the liability has
                              been allocated amongst the participants:

                                                               Alberta
                                                               Treasury                                   March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017
                                                              Board and                                   Extrapolated   Extrapolated
                                                               Finance       Employees      Employers        Results        Results

                               Pre ‘92                       $   244,241    $   245,692    $   245,692    $   735,625    $   806,430
                               Post ‘91                                —        (144,451)      (144,451)      (288,902)       (42,569)

                               Total Unfunded Liability      $   244,241    $   101,241    $   101,241    $   446,723    $   763,861

                              The unfunded liability for service prior to January 1, 1992 is financed by additional contributions of 1.25%
                              (2017 - 1.25%) of salaries by Alberta Treasury Board and Finance and the balance of the required contributions, 2.90%
                              (2017 - 3.54%) of salaries, is equally split between employees and employers in order to eliminate the unfunded
                              deficiency by December 31, 2043.
                              The total contributions for the year (which includes the current year’s service) were $271,640 (2017 - $259,514) of
                              which the contributions made by employees were $129,493 (2017 - $124,194), contributions made by employers
                              were $130,045 (2017 - $124,742) and contributions made by Alberta Treasury Board and Finance were $12,102
                              (2017 - $10,578).
                              Additional information on the UAPP can be found in the Annual Report of UAPP.

---PDF PAGE 75---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                        Ministry of Advanced Education                                                      71



                   Note 13    Pension Liabilities (continued)                                                                                                             (in thousands)
                              The expense and financial position of the UAPP is as follows:

                                                                                                 2018           2017

                                Pension Liability
                                   Accrued Benefit Obligation
                                      Balance, Beginning of Year                             $  5,182,544    $ 4,971,908
                                      Current Service Cost                                       177,436         173,939
                                      Interest Cost                                              314,007         301,661
                                      Benefits Paid                                              (253,061)      (236,336)
                                      Actuarial Gain                                              (46,916)       (28,628)
                                   Balance, End of Year                                         5,374,010      5,182,544

                                   Pension Fund Assets                                         (4,927,287)    (4,418,683)

                                   Total Unfunded Liability                                  $   446,723     $   763,861

                                   Ministry’s Portion of Total Unfunded Liability            $   101,241     $   235,152
                                   Unamortized Actuarial Net Gain (Loss)                         103,661           (4,920)

                                Total UAPP Pension Liability                                 $   204,902     $   230,232

                              The expense of this plan is $104,714 (2017 - $110,711) and includes the following components:

                                                                                                                2018            2017

                                Pension Expense
                                      Current Period Benefit Cost                                            $    88,718    $     86,970
                                      Amortization of Actuarial Losses                                               465           4,617
                                   Pension Expense                                                                89,183          91,587

                                      Interest Cost on the Average Accrued Benefit Obligation                    140,861        135,122
                                      Expected Return on Average Pension Plan Assets                            (125,331)       (115,998)
                                   Pension Interest Expense                                                       15,531          19,124

                                Total UAPP Pension Expense                                                   $   104,714    $   110,711

                              Ministry Pension Plans
                              The Ministry participates in the multi-employer pension plans: Management Employees Pension Plan, Local
                              Authorities Pension Plan and Public Service Pension Plan.  The Ministry also participates in the multi-employer
                              Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers.  The expense for these pension plans is equivalent to the
                              annual contributions of $131,275 for the year ended March 31, 2018 (2017 - $164,969 Restated Note 4).
                              At December 31, 2017, the Management Employees Pension Plan reported a surplus of $866,006 (2016 - surplus of
                              $402,033), the Local Authorities Pension Plan reported a surplus of $4,835,515 (2016 - deficiency of $637,357) and the
                              Public Service Pension Plan reported a surplus of $1,275,843 (2016 - surplus of $302,975).  At December 31, 2017, the
                              Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers had a deficiency of $54,984 (2016 - deficiency of
                              $50,020).
                              Certain consolidated entities provide defined supplementary executive retirement plans for certain management
                              staff, and other benefit plans for all or specific groups of staff, depending on the plans.  The cost of these benefits are
                              actuarially determined on an annual basis using the projected benefit method pro-rated on services, the government
                              borrowing rate, management’s best estimate of expected costs, and the period of benefit coverage.  At
                              March 31, 2018, these plans have a net accrued liability of $59,471 (2017 - $58,132).  This liability is included in
                              employee future benefits. The expense of these supplementary retirement plans is $6,222 (2017 - $6,748).
                              The Ministry also participates in two multi-employer Long Term Disability Income Continuance Plans.  At
                              March 31, 2018, the Bargaining Unit Plan reported a surplus of $111,983 (2017 - surplus $101,515) and the
                              Management, Opted Out and Excluded Plan reported a surplus of $29,805 (2017 - surplus $31,439).  The expense for
                              these two plans is limited to the employer’s annual contributions for the year.

---PDF PAGE 76---
72                                                     Ministry of Advanced Education                                                           Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


  Note 14       Tangible Capital Assets                                                                                                                                              (in thousands)

                                                                                                                       2018                                                              2017
                                                                                                                                     Computer
                                                                                                        Land                       Hardware and
                                                                      Land           Building      Improvements     Equipment         Software          Other         2018 Total      2017 Total
                                                                                                                         (2)                              (3)

                 Estimated Useful Life                               Indefinite      3-50 years      5-40 years      2-25 years       2-15 years      2-25 years

                 Historical Cost (1)
                     Beginning of Year                             $   285,884    $10,581,351      $     62,369     $ 2,289,932     $   986,682     $    802,999    $15,009,217     $14,435,680
                     Additions                                            3,299        696,474           22,290         100,240           66,316          35,769         924,387          724,266
                     Donations                                              430           2,268               —            5,159             133              634           8,624           6,558
                     Disposals, including Write-downs                       (35)         (4,935)              —        (583,926)         (35,812)          (2,208)      (626,916)        (124,737)
                     Transfer to Assets Held for Sale                        —               —                —               —               —                —               —          (22,191)
                     Adjustments (4)                                         —           (1,425)              —           (7,438)           (686)          (4,474)        (14,023)        (10,360)
                                                                       289,578      11,273,733           84,659       1,803,967       1,016,633          832,720      15,301,289      15,009,216

                 Accumulated Amortization
                     Beginning of Year                                       —       3,634,586           20,652       1,637,263         878,659          597,412       6,768,572        6,400,076
                     Amortization Expense                                    —         264,766            2,247         145,038           51,769          37,583         501,403          506,667
                     Effect of Disposals, including                          —           (1,828)              —        (578,105)         (33,239)          (1,630)      (614,802)        (110,373)
                     Write-downs
                     Transfer to Assets Held for Sale                        —               —                —               —               —                —               —          (17,517)
                     Adjustments (4)                                         —              216               —           (5,495)           (690)          (3,202)         (9,171)        (10,282)
                                                                             —       3,897,740           22,899       1,198,701         896,499          630,163       6,646,002        6,768,571

                 Net Book Value at March 31, 2018                  $   289,578    $  7,375,993     $     61,760     $   605,266     $   120,134     $    202,557    $  8,655,287

                 Net Book Value at March 31, 2017                  $   285,884    $  6,946,765     $     41,717     $   652,683     $   108,009     $    205,587                    $   8,240,645

                (1)   Historical cost includes work-in-progress at March 31, 2018 totalling $761,199 (2017 Restated - $728,597) comprised of Building and Site Improvements -
                     $737,907 (2017 - $695,408), Land Improvements - $51 (2017 - $0), Equipment - $7,094 (2017 - $12,895), Computer Hardware and Software - $16,147
                     (2017 Restated - $20,180) and Other - $0 (2017 - $114).
                (2)   Equipment includes vehicles, heavy equipment, office equipment and furniture, and other equipment.
                (3)   Other includes leasehold improvements, library materials and asset retirement obligations.
                (4)   Adjustments relate to post-secondary institutions for accounting policy changes and reclassifications between capital asset categories.  Prior year’s beginning
                     balance of costs and accumulated amortization were decreased by $424,383 (2017 - $10,360)  and $419,531 (2017 - $10,282) respectively.

  Note 15       Net Assets – Endowments                                                                                                                                              (in thousands)
                Net assets includes externally restricted endowments of $2,319,487 of portfolio investment restricted for endowments.
                The endowment funds are as follows:

                                                                      2018             2017

                 Balance, Beginning of Year                        $ 2,158,155     $ 2,007,472
                 Endowment Contributions                                52,520           63,674
                 Reinvested Income                                     107,151           73,761
                 Net Transfers from Unrestricted Net Assets               1,661          13,248

                 Balance, End of Year                              $ 2,319,487     $ 2,158,155

                The $2,319,487 does not include $14,115 realized earnings that are not capitalized back to endowment principal.  The $2,333,602
                portfolio investments restricted for endowments (Schedule 4) includes the $14,115 realized earnings.
                The investment policy of three of the post-secondary institutions requires that the unrealized gains/losses of the endowment
                investments are recorded as part of the endowment balance.  The aggregated amount of the unrealized gain is $362,524
                (2017 - $363,820).  The Ministry does not record the unrealized gains/losses because it will not adopt PS 3450 Financial
                Instruments until April 1, 2021.

---PDF PAGE 77---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                       Ministry of Advanced Education                                                    73


                 Note 16      Contingent Liabilities                                                                                                                   (in thousands)
                              At March 31, 2018, the Ministry of Advanced Education is a defendant in a number of legal proceedings.  While the
                              ultimate outcome and liability of these proceedings cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, the Ministry
                              believes that any settlement will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or the results of
                              operations.  The Ministry has concluded that none of the claims meet the criteria for being recorded under PSAS.
                              The Ministry has a number of contingent liabilities related to third party agreements.  In the current year, the Ministry
                              has identified a liability related to these agreements of $1,266 (2017 - $725).
                              The Ministry has identified potential asset retirement obligations related to the existence of asbestos in a number of
                              its facilities.  Although not a current health hazard, upon renovation or demolition of these facilities, the Ministry may
                              be required to take appropriate remediation procedures to remove the asbestos.  As the Ministry has no legal
                              obligation to remove the asbestos in these facilities as long as the asbestos is contained and does not pose a public
                              health risk, the fair value of the obligation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the indeterminate timing and
                              scope of the removal.  However, when there are plans to demolish or renovate a building which contains asbestos, the
                              obligation related to the demolition is determined and recorded as part of the project costs. In the current year, the
                              Ministry has recorded a liability for contaminated sites of $151 (2017 - $153 Restated).

                 Note 17      Contractual Obligations                                                                                                                  (in thousands)
                              Contractual obligations are obligations of the Ministry to others that will become liabilities in the future when the
                              terms of those contracts or agreements are met.

                                                                                                                              2018           2017
                                                                                                                                          (Restated Note 4)

                               Obligations under Operating Leases, Contracts and Programs                                 $  1,096,313   $  1,119,589
                               Obligations under Capital Leases for Operations, Maintenance, and Interest Payments               2,328          3,201

                                                                                                                          $  1,098,641   $  1,122,790

                              Estimated payment requirements for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:

                                                                              Operation, Maintenance,
                                                   Operating Leases,           and Interest Payments
                                                Contracts and Programs          under Capital Leases        2018 Total

                               2018-19                $   524,552                   $        997           $   525,549
                               2019-20                    247,247                            761               248,008
                               2020-21                    120,528                            465               120,993
                               2021-22                     68,576                            105                 68,681
                               2022-23                     46,958                             —                  46,958
                               Thereafter                  88,452                             —                  88,452

                                                      $ 1,096,313                   $      2,328           $ 1,098,641


                 Note 18      Payments under Agreement                                                                                                                 (in thousands)
                              In the current year there are no new federally funded programs accounted for as payments under agreement.  The
                              Ministry continues to collect federal grant overpayments to repay the government for completed agreements.
                              Government of Canada
                              Net amounts payable under agreements on behalf of the Government of Canada:

                                                                                                2018           2017

                               Canadian Millennium Scholarship Foundation
                                  Canadian Millennium Scholarship Foundation                $         (2)  $         (5)

                               Government of Canada
                                  Canada Study Grants                                                 (3)            (3)
                                  Canada Student Grants                                             (105)          (115)

                                                                                            $       (110)  $       (123)

---PDF PAGE 78---
74                                              Ministry of Advanced Education                                               Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                Note 19     Funds Held on Behalf of Others                                                                                                   (in thousands)
                            The Ministry holds funds on behalf of others over which the legislature has no power of appropriation.  Because the
                            Ministry has no equity in the funds and holds them for the purposes of various other organizations, they are not
                            included in the Ministry’s financial statements.  Total net assets of the funds held on behalf of others by the Ministry
                            at March 31, 2018 were $40,032 (2017 - $43,979).

                Note 20     Subsequent Events
                            Effective: (1) April 1, 2018, the government consolidated human resource functions under the Public Service
                            Commission within the Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance; (2) April 1, 2018, the government consolidated the
                            Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy (FOIP) delivery services under the Ministry of Service Alberta;
                            (3) April 1, 2018, the government consolidated information management and technology services under the Ministry
                            of Service Alberta.

                Note 21     Comparative Figures
                            Certain 2017 figures have been reclassified to conform to the 2018 presentation.

                Note 22     Approval of Consolidated Financial Statements
                            The Deputy Minister and Senior Financial Officer approved these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 79---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                            Ministry of Advanced Education                                                         75

                                Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
                                for the year ended March 31, 2018

              Schedule 1        Consolidated Revenues
                                for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                                                                                                                 2018 Actual     2017 Actual
                                                                                                                                  (Restated Note 4)

                                 Government Transfers

                                    Government of Alberta Grants
                                       Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund                                         $     50,220    $     50,805
                                       Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                             330,372         319,950
                                                                                                                      380,592         370,755

                                    Federal and Other Government Grants
                                       Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                             419,235         415,742
                                       Labour Market Development                                                      105,393          82,991
                                       Other                                                                            8,255           8,312
                                                                                                                      532,883         507,045

                                 Investment Income
                                    Interest on Student Loans Issued                                                   29,738          22,352
                                    Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                200,881         210,010
                                    Other                                                                                 617             506
                                                                                                                      231,236         232,868

                                 Gain (Loss) from Government Business Enterprises (Schedule 5)                          3,610          (1,777)

                                 Premiums, Fees and Licences
                                    Apprenticeship Services                                                             4,452           4,392
                                    Licence Fees                                                                        1,213             359
                                                                                                                        5,665           4,751

                                 Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                                     1,201,554       1,168,827

                                 Sales, Rentals and Services                                                          593,765         612,217

                                 Donations, Grants and Contributions                                                  359,417         322,414

                                 Other Revenue
                                    Refunds of Expenditure                                                              5,134           3,790
                                    Miscellaneous                                                                      42,735          11,055
                                    Endowment Contributions and Reinvested Income (Note 15)                           159,671         137,435
                                                                                                                      207,540         152,280

                                                                                                                 $  3,516,262    $  3,369,380

---PDF PAGE 80---
76                                                        Ministry of Advanced Education                                                              Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


               Schedule 2         Consolidated Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object
                                  for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                          (in thousands)

                                                                                                        2018 Actual      2017 Actual
                                                                                                                          (Restated Note 4)

                                   Salaries, Wages and Employee Benefits                                $  3,622,000     $  3,484,121
                                   Supplies and Services                                                   1,376,405        1,324,826
                                   Grants                                                                    557,282          505,573
                                   Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 12)                         501,404          506,667
                                   Interest on Long-Term Debt                                                 39,258           39,436
                                   Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                          46,994           62,726
                                   Other (1)                                                                   (6,325)         11,447

                                   Total Expenses                                                       $    6,137,018   $  5,934,796

                                  (1)   This amount includes Provisions - Pensions, Employee Benefits, and Doubtful Accounts.

               Schedule 3         Consolidated Allocated Costs
                                  for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                          (in thousands)

                                                                                                                             2018                                               2017
                                                                                                              Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                                                                                       Accommodation         Legal          Business           Total             Total
                                                                                        Expenses            Costs          Services         Services         Expenses         Expenses
                                                                                             (1)              (2)              (3)              (4)                          (Restated Note 4)

                                   Program
                                       Public Post-Secondary Institutions              $ 5,681,090      $          —     $          —     $          —     $  5,681,090     $  5,480,194
                                       Department
                                          Ministry Support Services                          25,995            1,633               302            3,673          31,602            32,140
                                          Support for Adult Learning                         79,641            1,218               167               —           81,026            80,056
                                          Apprenticeship Delivery                            41,901            2,877                82               —           44,860            43,597
                                          Student Aid                                      216,732             1,438                82               —          218,252          231,503
                                          Foundational Learning Supports                     91,659               583               —                —           92,242            79,349

                                                                                       $ 6,137,018      $      7,749     $         633    $       3,673    $  6,149,073     $  5,946,839

                                  (1)   Expenses – Directly Incurred as per Consolidated Statement of Operations.
                                  (2)   Costs are as shown for Accommodation on Schedule 6, including grants in lieu of taxes, allocated by square footage.
                                  (3)   Costs are as shown for Legal Services on Schedule 6 and allocated by estimated costs incurred by each program.
                                  (4)   Costs are as shown for Business Services on Schedule 6, including Shared Services, Internal Audit and other services, allocated by costs in
                                       certain programs.

---PDF PAGE 81---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                                Ministry of Advanced Education                                                            77


              Schedule 4         Consolidated Portfolio Investments
                                 as at March 31, 2018                                                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                                                                                                                 2018                             2017
                                                                                                    Value at Cost      Fair Value    Value at Cost      Fair Value

                                  Interest-Bearing Securities
                                      Deposits and Short-Term Securities                             $   715,372     $    709,501     $    916,323     $   917,209
                                      Bonds and Mortgages                                              1,744,975        1,709,367        1,756,693       1,755,080
                                                                                                       2,460,347        2,418,868        2,673,016       2,672,289

                                  Equities
                                      Canadian Equities                                                  363,682          405,363          531,681         629,084
                                      Foreign Equities                                                   913,519        1,188,250          741,361         957,986
                                      Pooled Hedged Funds                                                  30,000          30,552           49,225           52,064
                                      Pooled Investment Funds                                          1,153,325        1,382,664          816,414       1,020,124
                                                                                                       2,460,526        3,006,829        2,138,681       2,659,258

                                  Inflation Sensitive and Alternative Investments
                                      Real Estate Funds                                                    66,175          98,567           67,920           93,578
                                      Other Investments                                                     6,559            7,464           6,010            6,615
                                                                                                           72,734         106,031           73,930         100,193

                                  Total Portfolio Investments                                        $ 4,993,607     $  5,531,728     $  4,885,627     $ 5,431,740


                                                                                                                 2018                             2017
                                                                                                    Value at Cost      Fair Value    Value at Cost      Fair Value

                                  Non-Endowment                                                      $ 2,660,005     $  2,757,036     $  2,719,848     $ 2,823,378
                                  Restricted for Endowments                                            2,333,602        2,774,692        2,165,779       2,608,362

                                  Total Portfolio Investments                                        $ 4,993,607     $  5,531,728     $  4,885,627     $ 5,431,740

---PDF PAGE 82---
78                                                        Ministry of Advanced Education                                                              Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


              Schedule 5          Equity in Government Business Enterprises
                                  as at March 31, 2018                                                                                                                                      (in thousands)

                                                                                                                             2018             2017

                                   Accumulated Deficit, Beginning of Year                                                $     (8,257)    $     (6,480)
                                   Adjustment to Prior Year Accumulated Surplus                                                (1,188)               —
                                   Adjusted Accumulated Deficit, Beginning of Year                                             (9,445)          (6,480)

                                   Total Revenue                                                                               11,700            5,206
                                   Total Expense                                                                                8,090            6,983
                                   Gain (Loss) from Commercial Operations                                                       3,610           (1,777)

                                   Accumulated Deficit, End of Year                                                      $     (5,835)    $     (8,257)

                                   Represented by:

                                   Assets
                                       Financial Assets                                                                  $     38,671     $     36,890
                                       Non-Financial Assets                                                                    34,792           22,358
                                                                                                                               73,463           59,248

                                   Liabilities
                                       Accounts Payable                                                                         6,870            8,921
                                       Debt                                                                                    54,379           38,829
                                                                                                                               61,249           47,750

                                                                                                                         $     12,214     $     11,498

                                   Equity (Deficiency) in Government Business Enterprises, End of Year
                                   as reported by the entities:
                                       Keyano College                                                                    $     15,114     $     14,177
                                       MacEwan University                                                                       3,000                —
                                       Northern Alberta Institute of Technology (1)                                             1,185            1,107
                                       Olds College                                                                             1,909            2,056
                                       Southern Alberta Institute of Technology (1)                                               980            1,452
                                       University of Calgary                                                                   (9,974)          (7,294)

                                                                                                                         $     12,214     $     11,498

                                   Advances
                                       Advances to Keyano Land Trust                                                     $     11,485     $     11,168
                                       Advances to Olds College Trust                                                           3,564            3,354
                                       Advances to MacEwan University Trust                                                     3,000                —

                                                                                                                         $     18,049     $     14,522

                                  (1)   The amount represents the percentage equity owned by the Ministry:
                                          Northern Alberta Institute of Technology - 33%
                                          Southern Alberta Institute of Technology - 33%

---PDF PAGE 83---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                        Ministry of Advanced Education                                                     79


             Schedule 6       Related Party Transactions
                              for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                          (in thousands)
                              Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Government of
                              Alberta consolidated financial statements. Related parties also include key management personnel and close family
                              members of those individuals in the ministry.
                              The Ministry and its employees paid or collected certain taxes and fees set by regulation for permits, licences and
                              other charges. These amounts were incurred in the normal course of business, reflect charges applicable to all users,
                              and have been excluded from this schedule.
                              The ministry had the following transactions with related parties reported in the Consolidated Statement of
                              Operations and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at the amount of consideration agreed upon
                              between the related parties:

                                                                                 2018            2017
                                                                                              (Restated Note 4)

                                Revenues
                                   Grants                                     $   380,592    $   370,755
                                   Other                                           76,716          61,528

                                                                              $   457,308    $   432,283

                                Expenses – Directly Incurred

                                   Grants                                     $      3,376   $      3,560
                                   Other Services                                 105,884          49,222

                                                                              $   109,260    $     52,782

                                Receivables from                              $    35,540    $     37,455

                                Payables to                                   $    15,964    $     17,233

                                Deferred Revenue                              $   377,335    $   376,789

                                Debt to Related Parties                       $ 1,066,698    $ 1,073,813

                                Contractual Rights                            $    22,703    $     27,300

                                Contractual Obligations                       $    19,309    $     14,126

                              The Ministry also had the following transactions with related parties for which no consideration was exchanged.  The
                              amounts for these related party transactions are estimated based on the costs incurred by the service provider to
                              provide the service.  These amounts are not reported in the consolidated financial statements and are disclosed in
                              Schedule 3.

                                                                                 2018            2017
                                                                                              (Restated Note 4)

                                Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                   Accommodation                              $      7,749   $      7,613
                                   Legal                                              633             660
                                   Shared Services                                   3,569          3,668
                                   Internal Audit                                       81             52
                                   GOA Learning Centre                                  23             58

                                                                              $    12,055    $     12,051

---PDF PAGE 84---
80                                          Ministry of Advanced Education                                        Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


           Schedule 7    Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
                            Department of Advanced Education
                            Funds
                               Access to the Future Fund
                            Public Post-Secondary Institutions
                               Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                                 Athabasca University
                                 University of Alberta
                                 University of Calgary
                                 University of Lethbridge
                               Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions
                                 MacEwan University
                                 Mount Royal University
                               Polytechnical Institutions
                                 Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
                                 Southern Alberta Institute of Technology
                               Comprehensive Community Institutions
                                 Bow Valley College
                                 Grande Prairie Regional College
                                 Keyano College
                                 Lakeland College
                                 Lethbridge College
                                 Medicine Hat College
                                 NorQuest College
                                 Northern Lakes College
                                 Olds College
                                 Portage College
                                 Red Deer College
                               Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions
                                 Alberta College of Art + Design
                                 The Banff Centre
                            Government Business Enterprises
                               Keyano College Land Trust
                               MacEwan Downtown Corporation
                               Olds College Trust
                               PanGlobal Training Systems Ltd.
                               West Campus Development Corporation

---PDF PAGE 85---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                              Department of Advanced Education                                81







                       Department of Advanced Education
                       Financial Statements
                       March 31, 2018                                                                                      Audited Information
                         Independent Auditor’s Report                                                                                   82
                         Statement of Operations                                                                                        83
                         Statement of Financial Position                                                                                84
                         Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets                                                                    84
                         Statement of Cash Flows                                                                                        85
                         Notes to the Financial Statements                                                                              86
                         Schedules to the Financial Statements

                           1    Revenues                                                                                                94

                           2    Credit or Recovery                                                                                      94

                           3    Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                                         95

                           4    Lapse/Encumbrance                                                                                       96

                           5    Salary and Benefits Disclosure                                                                          98

                           6    Related Party Transactions                                                                              99

                           7    Allocated Costs                                                                                       100

---PDF PAGE 86---
82                                             Department of Advanced Education                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018








                            Independent Auditor’s Report


                             To the Minister of Advanced Education


                             Report on the Financial Statements
                             I have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Department of Advanced Education, which comprise the
                             statement of financial position as at March 31, 2018, and the statements of operations, change in net financial assets
                             and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
                             information.
                             Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
                             Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
                             Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary
                             to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
                             error.
                             Auditor’s Responsibility
                             My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted my audit in
                             accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply with ethical
                             requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
                             are free from material misstatement.
                             An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
                             statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
                             material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments,
                             the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial
                             statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
                             expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also includes evaluating the
                             appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management,
                             as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
                             I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                             Opinion
                             In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Department
                             of Advanced Education as at March 31, 2018, and the results of its operations, its changes in net financial assets and
                             its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.



                             [Original signed by W. Doug Wylie FCPA, FCMA, ICD.D]
                             Auditor General
                             June 6, 2018
                             Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 87---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                                Department of Advanced Education                                                             83

                                 Statement of Operations
                                 for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                                                                                                                   2018                     2017
                                                                                                         Budget            Actual           Actual
                                                                                                                                         (Restated Note 3)

                                   Revenues (Schedule 1)
                                      Government Transfers
                                          Government of Alberta Grants                                 $     51,099    $     50,220     $     50,805
                                          Government of Canada Grants                                        94,434         226,251          175,755
                                      Investment Income                                                      25,379          29,738           22,352
                                      Premiums, Fees and Licences                                             4,855            6,651            6,724
                                      Other Revenue                                                           4,414            6,728            5,289
                                                                                                           180,181          319,588          260,925

                                   Expenses – Directly Incurred (Note 2(a) and Schedules 3, 4, 6, and 7)
                                      Programs
                                          Ministry Support Services                                          28,640          26,146           26,575
                                          Support for Adult Learning                                     2,469,223        2,440,477        2,409,294
                                          Apprenticeship Delivery                                            46,372          42,397           42,880
                                          Student Aid                                                      251,937          233,013          245,720
                                          Foundational Learning Supports                                     84,787          91,659           78,776
                                          Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                    446,582          498,685          519,666
                                                                                                         3,327,541        3,332,377        3,322,911

                                   Annual Deficit                                                      $(3,147,360)    $(3,012,789)     $(3,061,986)

                                   The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 88---
84                                                     Department of Advanced Education                                                             Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                 Statement of Financial Position
                                 as at March 31, 2018                                                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                                                          2018             2017
                                                                                                                        (Restated Note 3)

                                   Financial Assets
                                      Cash                                                            $     20,550     $      3,261
                                      Accounts Receivable (Note 4)                                          30,854           12,687
                                      Loans Receivable (Note 5)                                          2,547,100        2,155,514
                                                                                                         2,598,504        2,171,462

                                   Liabilities
                                      Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities (Note 7)                     37,275           39,133

                                   Net Financial Assets                                                  2,561,229        2,132,329

                                   Non-Financial Assets
                                      Tangible Capital Assets (Note 8)                                      21,047           23,346
                                      Prepaid Expenses                                                          151             348
                                                                                                            21,198           23,694

                                   Net Assets                                                         $  2,582,427     $  2,156,023

                                   Net Assets

                                      Net Assets, Beginning of Year                                   $  2,156,023     $  1,729,261
                                      Annual Deficit                                                    (3,012,789)      (3,061,986)
                                      Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                       3,439,193        3,488,748

                                      Net Assets, End of Year                                         $  2,582,427     $  2,156,023

                                   Contractual rights (Notes 6)
                                   Contractual Obligations (Note 9)
                                   The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.
                                 Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets
                                 for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                                                                                                                   2018                     2017
                                                                                                         Budget           Actual           Actual
                                                                                                                                         (Restated Note 3)

                                   Annual Deficit                                                     $(3,147,360)     $(3,012,789)     $(3,061,986)
                                      Acquisition of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 8)                        (3,974)          (3,554)         (4,402)
                                      Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 8)                        6,700           5,853            5,428
                                      Change in Prepaid Expenses                                                                197               (26)

                                      Net Financing Provided from General Revenue                                         3,439,193       3,488,748

                                   Increase in Net Financial Assets                                                         428,900         427,762

                                   Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                                2,132,329       1,704,567

                                   Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                                   $  2,561,229     $ 2,132,329

                                   The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 89---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                                  Department of Advanced Education                                                                85

                                  Statement of Cash Flows
                                  for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                            (in thousands)

                                                                                                             2018              2017
                                                                                                                           (Restated Note 3)

                                    Operating Transactions
                                       Annual Deficit                                                    $(3,012,789)     $(3,061,986)
                                       Non-Cash Items included in Net Operating Results
                                           Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 8)                      5,853            5,428
                                           Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                   46,994            62,726
                                           Student Loan Valuation Adjustments                                   (9,845)          (8,730)
                                           Provision for Vacation Pay                                              311              146
                                                                                                           (2,969,476)      (3,002,416)
                                       (Increase) Decrease in Accounts Receivable                             (18,167)            7,241
                                       Decrease in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                     (2,169)         (10,174)
                                       Decrease (Increase) in Prepaid Expenses                                     197               (26)
                                    Cash Applied to Operating Transactions                                 (2,989,615)      (3,005,375)

                                    Capital Transactions
                                       Acquisition of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 8)                          (3,554)          (4,402)
                                    Cash Applied to Capital Transactions                                        (3,554)          (4,402)

                                    Investing Transactions
                                       Loans Receivable
                                           Student Loan Disbursements                                        (614,398)        (645,385)
                                           Student Loan Repayments                                            185,663          159,224
                                    Cash Applied to Investing Transactions                                   (428,735)        (486,161)

                                    Financing Transactions
                                       Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                         3,439,193        3,488,748
                                    Cash Provided by Financing Transactions                                 3,439,193        3,488,748

                                    Increase (Decrease) in Cash                                                17,289            (7,190)

                                    Cash, Beginning of Year                                                      3,261           10,451

                                    Cash, End of Year                                                    $     20,550     $       3,261

                                    The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 90---
86                                             Department of Advanced Education                                               Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                            Notes to the Financial Statements
                            March 31, 2018

                  Note 1    Authority and Purpose
                            The Department of Advanced Education operates under the authority of the Government Organization Act,
                            Chapter G-10, Revised Statutes of Alberta 2000.
                            Advanced Education strives to engage Albertans in learning to build a resilient economy and a thriving society.

                 Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices
                            These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.
                      (a)   Basis of Financial Reporting
                            Revenue
                            All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services have not been
                            provided by year-end is recognized as unearned revenue.
                            Government Transfers
                            Transfers from all levels of governments are referred to as government transfers.
                            Government transfers are recognized as deferred capital contributions and deferred revenue if the eligibility criteria of
                            the transfer or the stipulations together with the department’s actions and communications as to the use of the
                            transfers create a liability.  These transfers are recognized as revenues, as the stipulations are met, and when
                            applicable, the department complies with its communicated uses of these transfers.
                            All other government transfers, without stipulations for the use of the transfer, are recognized as revenue when the
                            transfer is authorized and the department meets the eligibility criteria (if any).
                            Credit or Recovery
                            Credit or recovery initiatives provide a basis for authorizing spending.  Credits or recoveries are shown in the details of
                            the government estimates for a supply vote.  If budgeted revenues are not fully realized, spending is reduced by an
                            equivalent amount.  If actual credit or recovery amounts exceed budget, the department may, with the approval of
                            the Treasury Board Committee, use the excess to fund additional expenses of the program.  Schedule 2 discloses
                            information on the department’s credit or recovery initiatives.
                            Transfers of Tangible Capital Assets from Other Government Departments/Entities
                            Transfers of tangible capital assets from other government departments or entities are recognized as revenue.
                            Expenses
                            Directly Incurred
                            Directly incurred expenses are those costs the department has primary responsibility and accountability for, as
                            reflected in the government’s budget documents.  These include grant expenses.
                            Grants are recognized as expenses when authorized, eligibility criteria, if any, are met by the recipients and a
                            reasonable estimate of the amounts can be made.
                            In addition to program operating expenses such as salaries, supplies, etc., directly incurred expenses also include:

                            „   amortization of tangible capital assets;

                            „   pension costs which comprise the cost of employer contributions for current service of employees during the year;

                            „   valuation adjustments which include changes in the valuation allowances used to reflect financial assets at their
                                 net recoverable or other appropriate value.  Valuation adjustments represent the change in management’s
                                 estimate of future payments arising from obligations relating to student loans and employee vacation pay,
                                 guarantees and indemnities; and

                            „   transfer of tangible capital assets to other government departments/entities.
                            Incurred by Others
                            Services contributed by other related entities in support of the department’s operations are not recognized but
                            disclosed in Schedule 7.

---PDF PAGE 91---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                   Department of Advanced Education                                                   87



                    Note 2   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                             Valuation of Financial Assets and Liabilities
                             Fair value is the amount of consideration agreed upon in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing
                             parties who are under no compulsion to act.
                             The fair values of cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities are estimated to approximate
                             their carrying values because of the short term nature of these instruments.  The fair values of loans receivable are not
                             reported as there is no organized financial market for all of the instruments and it is not practicable within constraints
                             of timeliness or cost to estimate the fair values with sufficient reliability.
                             Financial Assets
                             Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                             for consumption in the normal course of operations.
                             Financial assets of the department are limited to cash and financial claims, such as advances to and receivables from
                             other organizations, employees, students and other individuals.
                             Accounts receivable are recognized at the lower of cost or net recoverable value.  A valuation allowance is recognized
                             when recovery is uncertain.
                             Loans receivable are recognized at cost net of allowances for impaired loans, loan subsidy, and repayment assistance.
                             The change in the allowances reflects the provision for default, subsidy and assistance, limitations and write-offs of
                             loans under the Student Financial Assistance Act (Note 5).
                             Liabilities
                             Liabilities are present obligations of the department to external organizations and individuals arising from past
                             transactions or events, the settlement of which is expected to result in the future sacrifice of economic benefits.  They
                             are recognized when there is an appropriate basis of measurement and management can reasonably estimate the
                             amounts.
                             Non-Financial Assets
                             Non-financial assets are acquired, constructed or developed assets that do not normally provide resources to
                             discharge existing liabilities, but instead:
                             (a) are normally employed to deliver government services;
                             (b) may be consumed in the normal course of operations; and
                             (c) are not for sale in the normal course of operations.
                             Non-financial assets of the department are limited to tangible capital assets and prepaid expenses.
                             Tangible Capital Assets
                             Tangible capital assets of the department are recognized at historical cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over
                             the estimated useful lives of the assets.  The threshold for capitalizing new systems development is $250,000 and the
                             threshold for major systems enhancements is $100,000.  The threshold for all other tangible capital assets is $5,000.
                             Amortization is only charged if the tangible capital asset is put into service.
                             Other Assets
                             Intangible assets, inherited natural resources, Crown lands, art and historic treasures and assets acquired by right are
                             not recognized in these financial statements.
                             Measurement Uncertainty (in thousands)
                             Measurement uncertainty exists when there is a variance between the recognized or disclosed amount and another
                             reasonably possible amount.
                             The areas subject to measurement uncertainty are net student loans receivable of $2,547,100 (2017 - $2,155,514) per
                             Note 5 after adjusting for the following:
                             „   allowance for impaired loans amounting to $241,745 (2017 - $227,253);

                             „   allowance for loan subsidy amounting to $34,009 (2017 - $32,106); and

                             „   allowance for repayment assistance amounting to $8,806 (2017 - $6,440).
                             The allowances are used to reflect loans receivable at the lower of cost and net recoverable value.  Changes to the
                             allowances are recorded in the statement of operations to the provision for the future cost of student loans issued.
                             In the current year, $46,994 (2017 - $62,726) was recorded as the provision for the future cost of student loans issued
                             to reflect the change in the allowances.

---PDF PAGE 92---
88                                             Department of Advanced Education                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018



                   Note 2    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                             Measurement Uncertainty (continued) (in thousands)
                             The department has made certain estimates in the following areas:

                             „   Recovery and default rates in the determination of the allowance for impaired loans.
                             „   Blended student lending rate, the annual average provincial borrowing rate, the average repayment period,
                                 default rate, and repayment assistance rate in the determination of the allowance for loan subsidy.
                             „   Future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates in the determination of the
                                 allowance for repayment assistance.
                             The impact of changes in estimates would affect the total student loan provision as follows:

                             „   An increase or decrease of 0.25% to the default rate would respectively increase or decrease the provision by
                                 $6,700 (14.3%).

                             „   An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the provincial borrowing rate would respectively increase or decrease the
                                 provision by $9,100 (19.4%).

                             „   An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the student lending rate would respectively increase or decrease the provision
                                 by $6,700 (14.3%).

                             „   An increase or decrease of 1% in the repayment assistance amounts or loan forgiveness rate would have a minimal
                                 impact on the calculated provision.
                             Sensitivity analysis is based on assumptions which may not necessarily be linear.  Although some of the other
                             variables mentioned above were not applied in the calculations of the sensitivity, actual experience has shown that
                             changes in one variable may amplify or suppress changes in another which would impact the overall result differently
                             from the projected outcome.
                             Government Endowment Funds for Scholarships
                             The Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund operates under the Alberta Heritage Scholarship Act for the purpose of
                             investing the endowment fund to make income available for scholarships.
                             The Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance controls this endowment.  However, the department of Advanced
                             Education has an economic interest in the endowment as it assists in funding department programs.  Additional
                             information on the endowment can be found in the financial statements for Alberta Treasury Board and Finance.

                                                                                                 Net Assets
                                                                                     2018                         2017
                                                         (in thousands)   Value at Cost   Fair Value   Value at Cost   Fair Value

                              Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund           $ 1,269,328    $ 1,350,655   $ 1,205,282    $ 1,301,116

                      (b)    Change in Accounting Policy
                             The department has prospectively adopted the following standards from April 1, 2017: PS 2200 Related Party
                             Disclosures, PS 3420 Inter-Entity Transactions, PS 3210 Assets, PS 3320 Contingent Assets and PS 3380 Contractual
                             Rights which are reflected in Note 2, Note 6, Schedule 3, Schedule 6 and Schedule 7.
                       (c)   Future Accounting Changes
                             The Public Sector Accounting Board issued these following accounting standards:
                             PS 3430 Restructuring Transactions (effective April 1, 2018)
                             This standard provides guidance on how to account for and report restructuring transactions by both transferors and
                             recipients of assets and/or liabilities, together with related program or operating responsibilities.
                             PS 3280 Asset Retirement Obligations (effective April 1, 2021)
                             This standard provides guidance on how to account for and report a liability for retirement of a tangible capital asset.
                             PS 3450 Financial Instruments (effective April 1, 2021)
                             Adoption of this standard requires corresponding adoption of PS 2601 Foreign Currency Translation, PS 1201 Financial
                             Statement Presentation, and PS 3041 Portfolio Investments in the same fiscal period.  These standards provide
                             guidance on: recognition, measurement and disclosure of financial instruments; standards on how to account for and
                             report transactions that are denominated in a foreign currency; general reporting principles and standards for the
                             disclosure of information in financial statements; and how to account for and report portfolio investments.
                             Management is currently assessing the impact of these standards on the financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 93---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                     Department of Advanced Education                                                    89


                   Note 3     Program Transfers                                                                                                                         (in thousands)
                              Effective September 1, 2017 via Order in Council 167/2017, Communications and Public Engagement branches were
                              transferred from each department to the Department of Treasury Board and Finance.  Comparatives for 2017 have
                              been restated as if the current organization structure had always been the same.
                              Net assets on April 1, 2016 are made up as follows:

                               Net Assets as previously reported                                           $  1,729,127
                               Transfer to the Department of Treasury Board and Finance                             134

                               Net Assets at April 1, 2016                                                 $  1,729,261

                              Net financial assets on April 1, 2016 are made up as follows:

                               Net Financial Assets as previously reported                                 $  1,704,433
                               Transfer to the Department of Treasury Board and Finance                             134

                               Net Financial Assets at April 1, 2016                                       $  1,704,567


                  Note 4      Accounts Receivable                                                                                                                       (in thousands)
                              Accounts receivable are unsecured and non-interest bearing.

                                                                                 2018           2017

                               Government of Canada                          $    23,178    $      8,735
                               Accrued Interest Receivable on Loans                 4,939          2,132
                               Other                                                2,737          1,820

                                                                             $    30,854    $     12,687


                  Note 5      Loans Receivable                                                                                                                          (in thousands)

                                                                                 2018           2017

                               Loans Receivable                              $ 2,831,660    $ 2,421,313

                               Less:
                               Allowance for Impaired Loans                     (241,745)       (227,253)
                               Allowance for Loan Subsidy                         (34,009)       (32,106)
                               Allowance for Repayment Assistance                  (8,806)        (6,440)

                                                                             $ 2,547,100    $ 2,155,514
                              Program and Repayments
                              Under the Alberta Student Aid Program, loans are provided by the department to qualifying students on terms
                              prescribed by the Minister of Advanced Education.
                              Loans are unsecured and are repayable to a maximum term of 114 months.  The interest rates on student loans are a
                              floating rate of prime or a fixed rate of prime plus 2%, however:

                              „   Students are not expected to make repayments while in school.

                              „   Loans become payable and interest is earned starting six months after students graduate or discontinue their
                                  studies.

                              „   Students could apply for Government Repayment Assistance Program if they qualify and satisfy the conditions.

                              „   Loans are classified as impaired, with the following conditions:
                                  „   there is no longer reasonable assurance as to the timely collection of the full amount of principal or interest; or

                                  „   the borrower has failed to make payments for a period of 150 days; or

                                  „   interest is owing to the Province for a period of 180 days.

---PDF PAGE 94---
90                                               Department of Advanced Education                                                   Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018



                    Note 5    Loans Receivable (continued)                                                                                                            (in thousands)
                              Allowances
                              The allowance for impaired loans is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be impaired.
                              The key assumptions used to determine this provision are default rates of 5.4% (2017 - 6.1%) and recovery rates of
                              26.7% (2017 - 28.5%).
                              The allowance for loan subsidy is a provision that reflects the future benefit provided to students.  This benefit is a
                              result of favorable loan terms where the department does not receive interest payments over the term of the loans to
                              fully cover the department’s cost of financing the loan portfolio.  Changes in future year estimates are expensed and
                              amortized on the allowance for loan subsidy over the estimated life of the student loan.  The key assumptions used to
                              determine this provision are a blended student lending rate of 3.3% (2017 - 3.2%), the annual average provincial
                              borrowing rate of 2.6% (2017 - 2.5%), the average repayment period of 9 years (2017 - 9 years), default rate
                              assumptions, and Repayment Assistance Plan rate assumptions.
                              The allowance for repayment assistance is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be
                              forgiven by the department through the repayment assistance program.  The key assumptions used to determine this
                              provision are the future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates of 9.2%
                              (2017 - 8.5%).
                              Repayment Terms
                              Following is the repayment term for loans due starting six months after graduation or discontinuation of studies, or in
                              the Repayment Assistance program.

                                                                                               Total
                                            (in thousands)     Principal      Interest      Payments

                               2018-19                       $   167,701    $      5,484   $   173,185
                               2019-20                           160,272           5,241       165,513
                               2020-21                           156,575           5,120       161,695
                               2021-22                           151,075           4,940       156,015
                               2022-23                           142,843           4,671       147,514
                               Thereafter                        370,459          12,114       382,573

                                                             $ 1,148,925    $     37,570   $  1,186,495

                              All other loans are excluded as no terms of payment have been established.

                  Note 6      Contractual Rights                                                                                                                      (in thousands)

                              Contractual rights are rights of the department to economic resource arising from contracts or agreements that will
                              result in both assets and revenues in the future when the terms of those contracts or agreements are met.

                                                                                2018           2017

                               Rights under Contracts and Programs          $   177,524    $   258,057

                                                                            $   177,524    $   258,057

                              Estimated amounts that will be received or receivable for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:

                                              Rights under
                                             Contracts and
                                               Programs

                               2018-19        $   152,704
                               2019-20               4,964
                               2020-21               4,964
                               2021-22               4,964
                               2022-23               4,964
                               Thereafter            4,964

                                              $   177,524

---PDF PAGE 95---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                              Department of Advanced Education                                                             91


                    Note 7       Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                                                                                               (in thousands)

                                                                        2018            2017
                                                                                     (Restated Note 3)

                                   Accounts Payable                 $      1,295     $      1,366
                                   Unearned Revenue                        2,164              504
                                   Other Accrued Liabilities:
                                      Grants                              21,027          24,451
                                      Vacation                             6,909            6,662
                                      Other (1)                            5,880            6,150

                                                                    $     37,275     $    39,133

                                 (1)   $110 (2017 - $123) is represented by Payments Under Agreement (Note 11).

                    Note 8       Tangible Capital Assets                                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                                                                                                         2018                              2017
                                                                                                      Computer
                                                                                                    Hardware and
                                                                                     Equipment         Software           Total            Total
                                                                                          (1)

                                   Estimated Useful Life                              5-10 years       3-10 years

                                   Historical Cost (2)
                                      Beginning of Year                              $        309    $     66,420     $     66,729     $     62,776
                                      Additions                                                18            3,536           3,554            4,402
                                      Disposals, including Write-downs                         —               (49)             (49)           (449)
                                                                                              327          69,907           70,234           66,729

                                   Accumulated
                                      Beginning of Year                                       167          43,216           43,383           38,404
                                      Amortization Expense                                     42            5,811           5,853            5,428
                                      Effect of Disposals                                      —               (49)             (49)           (449)
                                                                                              209          48,978           49,187           43,383

                                   Net Book Value at March 31, 2018                  $        118    $     20,929     $     21,047

                                   Net Book Value at March 31, 2017                  $        142    $     23,204                      $     23,346

                                 (1)   Equipment includes office equipment and furniture.
                                 (2)   Historical cost includes work-in-progress at March 31, 2018 totaling $3,380 (2017 - $11,733).

---PDF PAGE 96---
92                                              Department of Advanced Education                                                   Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                  Note 9     Contractual Obligations                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                             Contractual obligations are obligations of the department to others that will become liabilities in the future when the
                             terms of those contracts or agreements are met.

                                                                                              2018           2017
                                                                                                           (Restated) (1)

                               Obligations under Contracts and Programs                   $    73,228    $   112,997
                               Capital Grants                                                 230,717        355,908

                                                                                          $   303,945    $   468,905

                             (1)   Figures have been restated to remove obligations subject to appropriation which are not substantially complete.
                             Estimated payments requirements for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:

                                             Contracts and     Capital
                                               Programs        Grants          Total

                               2018-19        $    53,064   $   208,017    $   261,081
                               2019-20             19,804         22,700         42,504
                               2020-21                130             —             130
                               2021-22                130             —             130
                               2022-23                100             —             100
                               Thereafter              —              —              —

                                              $    73,228   $   230,717    $   303,945


                Note 10      Benefit Plans                                                                                                                          (in thousands)
                             The department participates in the following multi-employer pension plans: Management Employees Pension Plan
                             (MEPP), Public Service Pension Plan (PSPP) and Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers (SRP).
                             The expense for these pension plans is equivalent to the annual contributions of $7,295 for the year ended
                             March 31, 2018 (2017 (restated) -$7,980).  Departments are not responsible for future funding of the plan deficit other
                             than through contribution increases.
                             At December 31, 2017, the MEPP reported a surplus of $866,006 (2016 - surplus $402,033), the PSPP reported a
                             surplus of $1,275,843 (2016 - surplus $302,975) and the SRP reported a deficiency of $54,984 (2016 - deficiency
                             $50,020).
                             The department also participates in two multi-employer Long Term Disability Income Continuance Plans.  At
                             March 31, 2018, the Bargaining Unit Plan reported a surplus of $111,983 (2017 - surplus $101,515) and the
                             Management, Opted Out and Excluded Plan a surplus of $29,805 (2017 - surplus $31,439).  The expense for these two
                             plans is limited to the employer’s annual contributions for the year.

                Note 11      Payments Under Agreement                                                                                                               (in thousands)
                             In the current year there are no new federally funded programs accounted for as payments under agreement.  The
                             department continues to collect grant overpayments to repay the federal government for completed agreements.
                             Government of Canada
                             Net amounts payable under agreements on behalf of the Government of Canada:

                                                                                              2018           2017

                               Canadian Millennium Scholarship Foundation
                                  Canadian Millennium Scholarships                        $         (2)  $         (5)

                               Government of Canada
                                  Canada Study Grants                                               (3)            (3)
                                  Canada Student Grants                                           (105)          (115)

                                                                                          $       (110)  $       (123)

---PDF PAGE 97---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                              Department of Advanced Education                                              93


                Note 12     Subsequent Events
                            Effective: (1) April 1, 2018, the government consolidated human resource functions under the Public Service
                            Commission within the Department of Treasury Board and Finance; (2) April 1, 2018, the government consolidated
                            the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy (FOIP) delivery services under the Department of Service
                            Alberta; (3) April 1, 2018, the government consolidated information management and technology services under the
                            Department of Service Alberta.

                Note 13     Comparative Figures

                            Certain 2017 figures have been reclassified to conform to the 2018 presentation.

                Note 14     Approval of Financial Statements

                            The deputy minister and the senior financial officer approved these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 98---
94                                                    Department of Advanced Education                                                             Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                 Schedules to the Financial Statements
                                 for the year ended March 31, 2018

               Schedule 1        Revenues
                                 for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                       (in thousands)

                                                                                                 2018                     2017
                                                                                       Budget            Actual          Actual

                                   Government Transfers
                                      Government of Alberta Grants
                                         Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund           $     51,099     $    50,220     $     50,805
                                      Government of Canada Grants
                                         Strategic Investment Fund                             —          112,603           84,452
                                         Labour Market Development                          87,134        105,393           82,991
                                         Other Federal Grants                                7,300           8,255            8,312
                                                                                           94,434         226,251          175,755
                                                                                         145,533          276,471          226,560

                                   Investment Income
                                      Interest on Student Loans Issued                      20,099         23,903           16,869
                                      Amortization of Loan Discounts                         5,280           5,835            5,483
                                                                                           25,379          29,738           22,352

                                   Premiums, Fees and Licences
                                      Apprenticeship Services                                4,700           4,456            4,392
                                      Fees and Licences                                        155           2,195            2,332
                                                                                            4,855            6,651            6,724

                                   Other Revenue
                                      Refunds of Expense                                     2,700           5,275            4,068
                                      Other Revenue                                          1,714           1,453            1,221
                                                                                            4,414            6,728            5,289

                                                                                     $   180,181      $   319,588     $    260,925


              Schedule 2         Credit or Recovery
                                 for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                       (in thousands)

                                                                                                                         Actual                       Total Revenue
                                                                                                                        Revenue          Deferred        Received/       (Shortfall) /
                                                                                                      Authorized      Recognized         Revenue        Receivable         Excess

                                   Information and Technology Management Services (1)                 $      1,600    $       1,214    $          —     $      1,214    $        (386)
                                   Canada Student Loan Administration (2)                                     3,000           4,370               —            4,370            1,370
                                   French Language Program (3)                                                4,300           3,885               —            3,885             (415)

                                                                                                      $      8,900    $       9,469    $          —     $      9,469    $         569

                                 (1)   Revenue is collected from the provision of certain information and technology management services to stakeholders on a cost-recovery basis.
                                      Element 1.4 - Schedule 4.
                                 (2)   Funding is received from the federal government to administer Canada student loans and grants to Alberta students on a cost-recovery basis.
                                      Element 4.1 - Schedule 4.
                                 (3)   Funding is received from the federal government to support French minority language and second language education programs provided by
                                      post-secondary institutions and fellowships for individuals in full-time studies in French.  Elements 2.2 and 4.2 - Schedule 4.

---PDF PAGE 99---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                             Department of Advanced Education                                                            95


              Schedule 3         Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object
                                 for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                    (in thousands)

                                                                                                                 2018                    2017
                                                                                                       Budget           Actual          Actual
                                                                                                                                      (Restated Note 3)

                                  Salaries, Wages and Employee Benefits                             $     71,097     $     67,233    $     65,956
                                  Supplies and Services                                                   60,037           58,423          61,949
                                  Grants                                                               3,129,838       3,153,496        3,126,616
                                  Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets (Note 8)                         6,700            5,853           5,428
                                  Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                       59,800           46,994          62,726
                                  Other Expenditures                                                           69             378             236

                                  Total Expenses                                                    $  3,327,541     $ 3,332,377     $  3,322,911

---PDF PAGE 100---
96                                                    Department of Advanced Education                                                              Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


Schedule 4      Lapse/Encumbrance
                for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                                         (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                                          Adjusted
                                                                                                         Voted         Supplementary                        Voted            Voted         Unexpended
                                                                                                        Estimate          Estimate       Adjustments      Estimate          Actuals       (Overexpended)
                                                                                                            (1)              (2)             (3)                               (4)

                  Program - Operating Expense
                    1  Ministry Support Services
                       1.1     Minister’s Office                                                      $        742     $          —     $         —      $        742    $         737    $           5
                       1.2     Deputy Minister’s Office                                                        640                —               —               640              631                9
                       1.3     Communications                                                                1,394                —           (1,394)              —                —                —
                       1.4     Strategic and Corporate Services                                             23,405                —             (120)         23,285           21,848            1,437
                       1.5     Human Resources                                                               2,184                —               —             2,184            2,067              117
                                                                                                            28,365                —           (1,514)         26,851           25,283            1,568

                    2  Support for Adult Learning
                       2.1     Program Delivery Support                                                     12,247                —               —           12,247           12,065               182
                       2.2     Operating Support for Post-Secondary Institutions                         2,360,708                —               —        2,360,708        2,339,154           21,554
                       2.3     Academic Health Centres                                                      21,000                —               —           21,000           21,000                —
                       2.4     Campus Alberta Innovations                                                   17,151                —               —           17,151           16,052            1,099
                       2.5     Inter-Jurisdiction Programs                                                  10,013                —               —           10,013             9,484              529
                       2.6     Community Education                                                          24,027                —               —           24,027           23,596               431
                       2.7     Adult Learning System Initiatives                                            22,742                —               —           22,742           17,917            4,825
                                                                                                         2,467,888                —               —        2,467,888        2,439,268           28,620

                    3  Apprenticeship Delivery                                                              44,027                —               —           44,027           40,998            3,029
                                                                                                            44,027                —               —           44,027           40,998            3,029

                    4  Student Aid
                       4.1     Program Delivery Support                                                     36,521                —               —           36,521           34,943            1,578
                       4.2     Scholarships and Awards                                                      45,368                —               —           45,368           44,751               617
                       4.3     Grants and Bursaries                                                         56,399                —               —           56,399           53,410            2,989
                                                                                                           138,288                —               —          138,288          133,104            5,184

                    5  Foundational Learning Supports
                       5.1     Program Delivery Support                                                      4,378                —               —             4,378            4,338               40
                       5.2     Foundational Learning Programs                                               80,409                —               —           80,409           87,321            (6,912)
                                                                                                            84,787                —               —           84,787           91,659            (6,872)

                  Total                                                                               $  2,763,355     $          —     $     (1,514)    $ 2,761,841     $  2,730,312     $     31,529

                  Lapse / (Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                                   $     31,529

                       (1)   As per "Expense Vote by Program", "Capital Investment Vote by Program" and "Financial Transaction Vote by Program" page of 2017-18 Government
                            Estimates.
                       (2)   Per the Supplementary Estimates were approved on March 14, 2018.
                       (  )   Adjustments include encumbrances, capital carry forward amounts, transfers between votes and credit or recovery increases approved by Treasury 3
                            Board and credit or recovery shortfalls (Schedule 2).  An encumbrance is incurred when, on a vote by vote basis, the total of actual disbursements in the
                            prior year exceed the total adjusted estimate.  All calculated encumbrances from the prior year are reflected as an adjustment to reduce the
                            corresponding voted estimate in the current year.
                       (4)   Actuals exclude non-voted amounts such as amortization and valuation adjustments.

---PDF PAGE 101---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                                 Department of Advanced Education                                                               97


Schedule 4       Lapse/Encumbrance (continued)
                 for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                         (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                            Adjusted
                                                                                          Voted        Supplementary                         Voted            Voted          Unexpended
                                                                                        Estimate          Estimate        Adjustments       Estimate          Actuals      (Overexpended)
                                                                                            (1)               (2)              (3)                               (4)

                  Capital Investment

                    1  Ministry Support Services
                       1.4      Strategic and Corporate Services                       $      1,015     $          —     $          —     $      1,015     $        940     $          75

                    2  Support for Adult Learning
                       2.7      Adult Learning System Initiatives                                —                 —                —                —              156              (156)

                    3  Apprenticeship Delivery                                                  660                —            4,472            5,132            1,901            3,231

                    4  Student Aid
                       4.1      Program Delivery Support                                      2,299                —                —            2,299              557            1,742

                    Total                                                              $      3,974     $          —     $      4,472     $      8,446     $      3,554     $      4,892

                  Lapse / (Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                     $      4,892

                  Capital Payments to Related Parties

                    6  Post-Secondary Infrastructure
                       6.1      Capital Expansion and Upgrading                        $   292,582      $          —     $          —     $   292,582      $    250,582     $     42,000
                       6.2      Capital Maintenance and Renewal                            154,000                 —                —         154,000           135,500           18,500
                       Sub-total                                                           446,582                 —                —         446,582           386,082           60,500

                    Total Capital                                                      $   450,556      $          —     $      4,472     $   455,028      $    389,636     $     65,392

                  Lapse / (Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                     $     65,392

                  Financial Transactions

                    4  Student Aid
                       4.4      Student Loan Disbursements                             $   630,000      $          —     $          —     $   630,000      $    617,745     $     12,255

                    Total                                                              $   630,000      $          —     $          —     $   630,000      $    617,745     $     12,255

                  Lapse / (Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                     $     12,255

                 (1)   As per "Expense Vote by Program", "Capital Investment Vote by Program" and "Financial Transaction Vote by Program" page of 2017-18 Government
                      Estimates.
                 (2)   Per the Supplementary Estimates were approved on March 14, 2018.
                 (  )   Adjustments include encumbrances, capital carry forward amounts, transfers between votes and credit or recovery increases approved by Treasury 3
                      Board and credit or recovery shortfalls (Schedule 2).  An encumbrance is incurred when, on a vote by vote basis, the total of actual disbursements in the
                      prior year exceed the total adjusted estimate.  All calculated encumbrances from the prior year are reflected as an adjustment to reduce the
                      corresponding voted estimate in the current year.
                 (4)   Actuals exclude non-voted amounts such as amortization and valuation adjustments.

---PDF PAGE 102---
98                                                      Department of Advanced Education                                                                 Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


               Schedule 5         Salary and Benefits Disclosure
                                  for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                             (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                                          2018                                       2017
                                                                                                                                                                  Other
                                                                                                                                             Other Cash        Non-Cash
                                                                                                                            Base Salary        Benefits         Benefits            Total            Total
                                                                                                                                 (1)               (2)              (3)                             (Restated)

                                    Deputy Minister (4)                                                                    $         286     $          —     $          66     $        352     $         360

                                    Executives:
                                        ADM, Advanced Learning and Community Partnerships                                            200                —                50              250               257
                                        ADM, Apprenticeship and Student Aid                                                          198                —                49              247               254
                                        ADM, Strategic and Corporate Services                                                        197                —                49              246               247
                                        Executive Director, Senior Financial Officer                                                 164                —                43              207               155
                                        Executive Director, Human Resources                                                          164                —                40              204               244
                                        Executive Director, Chief Information Officer                                                153                —                38              191               189
                                        Director, Communications (5)                                                                 120                —                30              150               159

                                  (1)      Base salary includes regular base salary and earnings.
                                  (2)      There were no other cash benefits or bonuses paid in 2018.
                                  (3)      Other non-cash benefits include government’s share of all employee benefits and contributions or payments made on behalf of employees,
                                         including pension, supplementary retirement plans, health care, health spending account, dental coverage, group life insurance, short and
                                         long term disability plans, parking, professional memberships and tuition fees.
                                  (4)      Automobile provided, no dollar amount included in other non-cash benefits.
                                  (5)      Salary and benefits are paid by the Department of Treasury Board and Finance.

---PDF PAGE 103---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                    Department of Advanced Education                                                   99


             Schedule 6      Related Party Transactions
                             for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                      (in thousands)
                             Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Government of
                             Alberta Consolidated Financial Statements.  Related parties also include key management personnel in the
                             department and their close family members.
                             The department and its employees paid or collected certain taxes and fees set by regulation for premiums, licences
                             and other charges.  These amounts were incurred in the normal course of business, reflect charges applicable to all
                             users, and have been excluded from this schedule.
                             The department had the following transactions with related parties reported on the Statement of Operations and the
                             Statement of Financial Position at the amount of consideration agreed upon between the related parties:

                                                                              Entities in the Ministry          Other Entities
                                                                                2018          2017           2018           2017

                               Revenues
                                  Grants                                    $        —     $        —     $    50,220    $    50,805
                                  Other                                           1,142          3,040            170             —

                                                                            $     1,142    $     3,040    $    50,390    $    50,805

                               Expenses – Directly Incurred
                                  Grants                                    $ 2,876,398    $ 2,866,116    $     3,376    $     3,486
                                  Other Services                                    771          2,143          7,913          7,004

                                                                            $ 2,877,169    $ 2,868,259    $    11,289    $    10,490

                               Receivables from                             $       907    $       597    $        —     $        —

                               Payables to                                  $    14,967    $    15,131    $        —     $        —

                               Contractual Rights                           $       982    $     1,973    $        —     $        —

                               Contractual Obligations                      $   238,902    $   378,369    $        —     $        —

                             The department also had transactions with related parties for which no consideration was exchanged.  The amounts
                             for these related party transactions are estimated based on the costs incurred by the service provider to provide the
                             service.  These amounts are not reported in the financial statements.  Expenses are included in Schedule 7.

---PDF PAGE 104---
100                                                      Department of Advanced Education                                                                Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


               Schedule 7         Allocated Costs
                                  for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                             (in thousands)

                                                                                                                               2018                                                2017
                                                                                                                Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                                                                                         Accommodation         Legal          Business            Total            Total
                                                                                          Expenses            Costs          Services          Services        Expenses          Expenses
                                                                                              (1)               (2)              (3)              (4)                           (Restated Note 3)

                                    Program
                                        Ministry Support Services                       $     26,146      $      1,633     $         302    $       3,673     $     31,754     $     32,260
                                        Support for Adult Learning                         2,440,477             1,218               167                —       2,441,862         2,410,684
                                        Apprenticeship Delivery                               42,397             2,877                82                —           45,356           45,783
                                        Student Aid                                          233,013             1,438                82                —          234,533          247,212
                                        Foundational Learning Supports                        91,659               583                —                 —           92,242           79,349
                                        Post-Secondary Infrastructure                        498,685                 —                —                 —          498,685          519,666

                                                                                        $  3,332,377      $      7,749     $         633    $       3,673     $ 3,344,432      $  3,334,954

                                  (1)   Expenses – Directly Incurred as per Statement of Operations.
                                  (2)   Accommodation Costs, including grants in lieu of taxes, allocated by square footage.
                                  (3)   Legal Services Costs allocated by estimated costs incurred by each program.
                                  (4)   Business Services Costs, including charges for IT support, vehicles, internal audit services and other services, allocated by costs in certain
                                       programs.

---PDF PAGE 105---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                   Access to the Future Fund                                   101







                       Access to the Future Fund
                       Financial Statements
                       March 31, 2018                                                                                        Audited Information
                         Independent Auditor’s Report                                                                                   102
                         Statement of Operations                                                                                        103
                         Statement of Financial Position                                                                                103
                         Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets                                                                    103
                         Statement of Cash Flows                                                                                        104
                         Notes to the Financial Statements                                                                              105

---PDF PAGE 106---
102                                                  Access to the Future Fund                                                  Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018








                            Independent Auditor’s Report


                             To the Minister of Advanced Education


                             Report on the Financial Statements
                             I have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Access to the Future Fund, which comprise the
                             statement of financial position as at March 31, 2018, and the statements of operations, change in net financial assets
                             and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
                             information.
                             Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
                             Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
                             Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary
                             to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
                             error.
                             Auditor’s Responsibility
                             My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted my audit in
                             accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply with ethical
                             requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
                             are free from material misstatement.
                             An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
                             statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
                             material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments,
                             the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial
                             statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
                             expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also includes evaluating the
                             appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management,
                             as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
                             I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                             Opinion
                             In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Access to
                             the Future Fund as at March 31, 2018, and the results of its operations, its changes in net financial assets and its cash
                             flows for the year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.






                             [Original signed by W. Doug Wylie FCPA, FCMA, ICD.D]
                             Auditor General
                             June 6, 2018
                             Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 107---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                            Access to the Future Fund                                                       103

                               Statement of Operations
                               for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                           (in thousands)

                                                                                          2018                   2017
                                                                                 Budget          Actual          Actual

                                Revenues
                                   Investment Income                           $       413    $        617    $       507

                                                                                       413             617            507

                                Expenses (Note 2(a))
                                   Post-Secondary Infrastructure                         —              —          10,000

                                                                                         —              —          10,000

                                Annual Surplus (Deficit)                       $       413    $        617    $     (9,493)

                               The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.
                               Statement of Financial Position
                               as at March 31, 2018                                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                                                                                  2018            2017

                                Financial Assets
                                   Cash (Note 4)                               $    57,014    $     56,397

                                Net Financial Assets                                57,014          56,397

                                Net Assets                                     $    57,014    $     56,397

                                Net Assets
                                   Net Assets, Beginning of Year               $    56,397    $     65,890
                                   Annual Surplus (Deficit)                            617          (9,493)

                                   Net Assets, End of Year                     $    57,014    $     56,397

                               The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.
                               Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets
                               for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                           (in thousands)

                                                                                                          2018                   2017
                                                                                                 Budget          Actual         Actual

                                Annual Surplus (Deficit)                                      $        413    $       617    $     (9,493)

                                Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets                                           617          (9,493)
                                Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                            56,397          65,890

                                Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                             $    57,014    $     56,397

                               The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 108---
104                                                        Access to the Future Fund                                                          Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                Statement of Cash Flows
                                for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                                                                                                      2018            2017

                                 Operating Transactions
                                     Annual Surplus (Deficit)                                     $        617    $      (9,493)
                                     Cash Provided by (Applied to) Operating Transactions                  617           (9,493)

                                 Increase (Decrease) in Cash                                               617           (9,493)

                                 Cash, Beginning of Year                                                56,397          65,890

                                 Cash, End of Year                                                $     57,014    $     56,397

                                The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 109---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                    Access to the Future Fund                                                105

                             Notes to the Financial Statements
                             March 31, 2018

                  Note 1     Authority and Purpose
                             The Access to the Future Fund (the Fund) operates under the authority of the Access to the Future Act.
                             Generally, the purpose of the Fund is to support innovation and excellence by enhancing and expanding
                             opportunities for Albertans to participate in accessible, affordable and high-quality advanced education
                             opportunities.
                             In 2017-18, payments from the Fund continue to be suspended.

                 Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices
                             These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.
                      (a)    Basis of Financial Reporting
                             Revenue
                             All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.
                             Government Transfers
                             Transfers from the Government of Alberta (GoA) are referred to as government transfers.
                             Government transfers are recognized as deferred capital contributions and deferred revenue if the eligibility criteria
                             of the transfer or the stipulations together with the Fund’s actions and communications as to the use of the transfer
                             create a liability.  These transfers are recognized as revenue, as the stipulations are met and, when applicable, the
                             Fund complies with its communicated uses of these transfers.
                             All other government transfers, without stipulations for the use of the transfer, are recognized as revenue when the
                             transfer is authorized and the Fund meets the eligibility criteria (if any).
                             Expenses
                             Grants are recognized as expenses when authorized, eligibility criteria, if any, are met by the recipients and a
                             reasonable estimate of the amounts can be made.
                             Financial Assets
                             Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                             for consumption in the normal course of operations.
                             Financial assets of the Fund are limited to cash transferred or interest receivable from the General Revenue Fund of
                             the Province of Alberta.
                             Liabilities
                             Liabilities are present obligations of the Fund to external organizations and individuals arising from past transactions
                             or events, the settlement of which is expected to result in the future sacrifice of economic benefits.  They are
                             recognized when there is an appropriate basis of measurement and management can reasonably estimate the
                             amounts.
                      (b)     Change in Accounting Policy
                             The Fund has prospectively adopted the following standards from April 1, 2017: PS 2200 Related Party Disclosures,
                             PS 3420 Inter-Entity Transactions, PS 3210 Assets, PS 3320 Contingent Assets and PS 3380 Contractual Rights which
                             are reflected in Note 2 and Note 5.
                      (c)     Future Accounting Changes
                             The Public Sector Accounting Board issued these following accounting standards:
                             PS 3430 Restructuring Transactions (effective April 1, 2018)
                             This standard provides guidance on how to account for and report restructuring transactions by both transferors and
                             recipients of assets and/or liabilities, together with related program or operating responsibilities.
                             PS 3280 Asset Retirement Obligations (effective April 1, 2021)
                             This standard provides guidance on how to account for and report a liability for retirement of a tangible capital asset.

---PDF PAGE 110---
106                                                  Access to the Future Fund                                                   Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018



                   Note 2    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                             PS 3450 Financial Instruments (effective April 1, 2021)
                             Adoption of this standard requires corresponding adoption of PS 2601 Foreign Currency Translation, PS 1201 Financial
                             Statement Presentation, and PS 3041 Portfolio Investments in the same fiscal period.  These standards provide
                             guidance on: recognition, measurement and disclosure of financial instruments; standards on how to account for and
                             report transactions that are denominated in a foreign currency; general reporting principles and standards for the
                             disclosure of information in financial statements; and how to account for and report portfolio investments.
                             Management is currently assessing the impact of these standards on the financial statements.

                  Note 3     Advanced Education Endowment
                             The Advanced Education Endowment (the Endowment) is a notional account within the Alberta Heritage Savings
                             Trust Fund (AHSTF) that was established by the Access to the Future Act.  The notional balance provided below is used
                             as a base to which a rate is applied to determine future cash transfers to the Access to the Future Fund.

                                           (in thousands)      2018           2017

                              Opening Balance               $ 1,459,472   $  1,318,284
                              Rate of Return Adjustment         124,055       141,188

                              Closing Balance               $ 1,583,528   $  1,459,472

                             A maximum of $3 billion can be allocated to the Endowment from within the AHSTF of which $750 million has been
                             allocated in 2005-06 and $250 million in 2006-07.  The balance in the Endowment is adjusted for (a) the rate of return
                             reported by the AHSTF for the year and (b) transfers to the Access to the Future Fund.
                             Maximum transfers to the Access to the Future Fund are calculated as 4.5% of the average of the closing balances of
                             the Endowment for the preceding 3 fiscal years. Effective in fiscal year 2015-16, transfers to the Access to the Future
                             Fund are made from the General Revenue Fund (Sec 4(7) of the Access to the Future Act.)  The last transfer to the Access
                             to the Future Fund was made in 2014-15.

                  Note 4     Cash
                             Cash is deposited in the government’s Consolidated Cash Investment Trust Fund which is managed with the objective
                             of providing competitive interest income to depositors while maintaining appropriate security and liquidity of
                             depositors’ capital.  The portfolio is comprised of high-quality short-term and mid-term fixed-income securities with a
                             maximum term-to-maturity of three years.  As at March 31, 2018, securities held by the Fund have a time-weighted
                             rate of return of 1.1% per annum (2017 - 0.9% per annum).

                  Note 5     Related Party Transactions
                             Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Government of
                             Alberta’s financial statements.  Related parties also include key management personnel and their close family
                             members.
                             As payments from the Fund continue to be suspended, there are no transactions for the current year.

                                                                            Entities in the Ministry
                                                          (in thousands)      2018          2017

                              Expenses – Directly Incurred
                                 Grants                                   $         —    $    10,000

                             The Fund has no employees and receives administration support from the Department of Advanced Education at no
                             cost.

                  Note 6     Approval of Financial Statements

                             The deputy minister and the senior financial officer approved these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 111---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                              Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                             107







                       Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                               Unaudited Information
                          Public Post-Secondary Institutions
                            Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions                                                              108
                            Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions                                                                110
                            Polytechnical Institutions                                                                                    112
                            Comprehensive Community Institutions                                                                          114
                            Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions                                                                     118

---PDF PAGE 112---
108                                               Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                       Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                                Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                for March 31, 2018                                                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                                                                                                   University of   University of   University of     Athabasca
                                                                                                      Alberta         Calgary       Lethbridge       University      2018 Totals     2017 Totals
                                                                                                                                                                                        (Restated)

                                  Statement of Financial Position

                                     Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments
                                     Restricted for Endowments
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                  $     74,078     $   145,295     $     65,048    $      4,425     $   288,846     $   175,238
                                        Portfolio Investments - Non-Endowments                          872,516         886,760         138,542           41,887       1,939,705       2,009,165
                                        Investment in Government Business Enterprises                         —           (9,974)             —                —           (9,974)         (7,294)
                                        Accounts Receivable                                             153,177          70,306            4,994           8,134         236,611         227,905
                                        Inventories for Resale                                            2,340            4,363             669           1,347            8,719          11,146
                                                                                                      1,102,111       1,096,750         209,253           55,793       2,463,907       2,416,160

                                     Liabilities
                                        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                        179,497         166,724           35,091          10,533         391,845         356,586
                                        Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                             237,774         115,453           38,931          17,502         409,660         441,014
                                        Debt                                                            350,306         164,069            7,925               —         522,300         495,785
                                        Deferred Revenue                                                480,164         447,024           31,265          27,466         985,919         922,344
                                        Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                           67,852          21,207           41,184               —         130,243         220,944
                                                                                                      1,315,593         914,477         154,396           55,501       2,439,967       2,436,673

                                     Net Financial Assets/(Net Debt) excluding Portfolio               (213,482)        182,273           54,857             292          23,940          (20,513)
                                     Investments Restricted for Endowments
                                        Portfolio Investments - Restricted for Endowments             1,379,534         952,665           68,348           4,002       2,404,549       2,261,110

                                     Net Financial Assets                                          $  1,166,052     $ 1,134,938     $   123,205     $      4,294     $ 2,428,489     $ 2,240,597

                                     Non-Financial Assets
                                        Tangible Capital Assets                                    $  2,732,029     $ 1,880,148     $   463,834     $     49,764     $ 5,125,775     $ 4,923,885
                                        Inventories of Supplies                                           7,981               —               72               —            8,053              52
                                        Prepaid Expenses                                                      —            7,334           1,691           1,466          10,491           28,565
                                                                                                      2,740,010       1,887,482         465,597           51,230       5,144,319       4,952,502

                                     Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital                         3,906,062       3,022,420         588,802           55,524       7,572,808       7,193,099
                                     Contributions

                                     Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                             1,900,241       1,352,515         352,814           38,428       3,643,998       3,474,145

                                     Net Assets                                                    $  2,005,821     $ 1,669,905     $   235,988     $     17,096     $ 3,928,810     $ 3,718,954

                                     Net Assets
                                        Accumulated Surplus                                        $  1,729,849     $ 1,561,365     $   211,041     $     17,395     $ 3,519,650     $ 3,309,928
                                        Accumulated Remeasurement Gains and Losses                      275,972         108,540           24,947             (299)       409,160         409,026

                                                                                                   $  2,005,821     $ 1,669,905     $   235,988     $     17,096     $ 3,928,810     $ 3,718,954

                                       (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting
                                            Standards.  Full audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.

---PDF PAGE 113---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                          Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                       109

                                 Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions (continued)
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for March 31, 2018                                                                                                                                    (in thousands)

                                                                                                    University of    University of   University of     Athabasca
                                                                                                       Alberta          Calgary       Lethbridge       University      2018 Totals      2017 Totals
                                                                                                                                                                                           (Restated)

                                  Statement of Operations
                                      Revenue                                                        $$1,929,724     $$ 1,402,286     $$  211,957     $$   139,331     $$3,683,298     $$ 3,572,514
                                      Expenses                                                         1,876,924        1,397,287         210,113          132,276       3,616,600        3,524,023
                                      Endowment Contributions and Capitalized                             53,180           88,878              817             150         143,025          130,674
                                      Investment Income

                                      Annual Surplus                                                 $$  105,980     $$    93,877     $$     2,661    $$     7,205     $$  209,723     $$   179,165

                                  Statement of Cash Flows
                                      Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                   $    18,768     $     46,463     $   104,752     $      5,255     $   175,238     $    105,817
                                      Cash Provided by (Applied to) Operating Transactions                77,512          191,738          (30,455)          6,548         245,343          384,212
                                      Cash Applied to Organizational Activities                           (22,202)        (92,906)          (9,249)          (7,378)      (131,735)        (314,791)

                                      Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                         $    74,078     $    145,295     $     65,048    $      4,425     $   288,846     $    175,238

                                  Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
                                      Annual Surplus                                                 $   105,980     $     93,877     $      2,661    $      7,205     $   209,723     $    179,165
                                      Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                16,733           10,371           (4,931)            (342)        (21,831)        234,351

                                      Increase in Net Financial Assets in the Year                        89,247           83,506            7,592           7,547         187,892          413,516

                                      Net Financial Assets (Net Debt), Beginning of Year               1,076,805        1,051,432         115,613            (3,253)     2,240,597        1,827,081

                                      Net Financial Assets, End of Year                              $ 1,166,052     $  1,134,938     $   123,205     $      4,294     $ 2,428,489     $  2,240,597

                                  Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                      Base Salary                                                    $        500    $        480     $        440    $        337
                                      Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                  95             121               30             112
                                      Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                   221             297              254             146

                                                                                                     $        816    $        898     $        724    $        595

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full
                                      audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                 (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability
                                      insurance, etc.

---PDF PAGE 114---
110                                               Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                      Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions
                                Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                for June 30, 2017                                                                                                                                   (in thousands)

                                                                                                    MacEwan        Mount Royal
                                                                                                    University      University      2017 Totals     2016 Totals
                                                                                                                                                       (Restated)

                                  Statement of Financial Position

                                     Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments
                                     Restricted for Endowments
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                  $     46,992    $     18,952    $     65,944     $    96,752
                                        Portfolio Investments - Non-Endowments                           76,088          85,397         161,485         131,736
                                        Accounts Receivable                                              18,933          13,174          32,107          22,713
                                        Inventories for Resale                                            6,595             374           6,969          15,105
                                                                                                       148,608         117,897          266,505         266,306

                                     Liabilities
                                        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                         44,616          32,769          77,385          83,601
                                        Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                               7,553           3,609          11,162          10,274
                                        Debt                                                           116,796           62,046         178,842         147,404
                                        Deferred Revenue                                                 38,337          26,388          64,725          65,519
                                        Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                            4,949          20,044          24,993          29,324
                                                                                                       212,251         144,856          357,107         336,122

                                     Net Debt excluding Portfolio Investments                           (63,643)        (26,959)        (90,602)         (69,816)
                                     Restricted for Endowments
                                        Portfolio Investments - Restricted for Endowments                67,808          58,717         126,525         116,614

                                     Net Financial Assets                                          $      4,165    $     31,758    $     35,923     $    46,798

                                     Non-Financial Assets
                                        Tangible Capital Assets                                    $   400,619     $   356,330     $    756,949     $   703,901
                                        Inventories of Supplies                                              —                68              68              49
                                        Prepaid Expenses                                                  9,247              —            9,247            5,479
                                                                                                       409,866         356,398          766,264         709,429

                                     Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital                          414,031         388,156          802,187         756,227
                                     Contributions

                                     Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                              145,879         268,862          414,741         397,003

                                     Net Assets                                                    $   268,152     $   119,294     $    387,446     $   359,224

                                     Net Assets is comprised of:
                                        Accumulated Surplus                                        $   259,065     $   109,912     $    368,977     $   341,987
                                        Accumulated Remeasurement Gains and Losses                        9,087           9,382          18,469          17,237

                                                                                                   $   268,152     $   119,294     $    387,446     $   359,224

                                       (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting
                                           Standards.  Full audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.

---PDF PAGE 115---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                          Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                        111

                                 Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions (continued)
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for June 30, 2017                                                                                                                                      (in thousands)

                                                                                                                       MacEwan        Mount Royal
                                                                                                                       University       University      2017 Totals     2016 Totals
                                                                                                                                                                           (Restated)

                                  Statement of Operations
                                      Revenue                                                                         $$  253,076      $$  230,635     $$   483,711     $$  468,087
                                      Expenses                                                                            225,791          232,401          458,192         444,644
                                      Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                                770              701            1,471           2,044

                                      Annual Surplus (Deficit)                                                        $$    28,055     $$    (1,065)   $$    26,990     $$    25,487

                                  Statement of Cash Flows
                                      Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                    $     69,433     $    27,319     $     96,752     $   107,720
                                      Cash Provided by Operating Transactions                                               24,006          37,181           61,187           53,712
                                      Cash Applied to Organizational Activities                                            (46,447)         (45,548)        (91,995)         (64,680)

                                      Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                          $     46,992     $    18,952     $     65,944     $     96,752

                                  Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
                                      Annual Surplus (Deficit)                                                        $     28,055     $     (1,065)   $     26,990     $     25,487
                                      Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                 (39,647)           1,782         (37,865)         (69,500)

                                      Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) in the Year                   (11,592)             717         (10,875)         (44,013)

                                      Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                               15,757          31,041           46,798           90,811

                                      Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                               $      4,165     $    31,758     $     35,923     $     46,798

                                  Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                      Base Salary                                                                     $        321     $        252
                                      Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                                    10              73
                                      Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                                      71              87

                                                                                                                      $        402     $        412

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full
                                      audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                 (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability
                                      insurance, etc.

---PDF PAGE 116---
112                                                Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                        Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                 Polytechnical Institutions
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for June 30, 2017                                                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                                                      Northern         Southern
                                                                                                       Alberta          Alberta
                                                                                                     Institute of     Institute of
                                                                                                     Technology      Technology       2017 Totals      2016 Totals
                                                                                                                                                          (Restated)

                                  Statement of Financial Position

                                      Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments
                                      Restricted for Endowments
                                         Cash and Cash Equivalents                                   $     30,643    $    167,592     $   198,235     $    163,966
                                         Portfolio Investments - Non-Endowments                          326,378           37,600         363,978          366,604
                                         Investment in Government Business Enterprises                         —               980             980            1,452
                                         Accounts Receivable                                                8,063            7,666          15,729          17,191
                                         Inventories for Resale                                             3,453            1,390           4,843            6,990
                                                                                                         368,537          215,228         583,765          556,203

                                      Liabilities
                                         Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                          38,861          55,449           94,310          92,676
                                         Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                               28,341            9,972          38,313          36,856
                                         Debt                                                            171,132          132,344         303,476          308,394
                                         Deferred Revenue                                                  50,728          40,362           91,090          56,465
                                         Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                             4,531          10,144           14,675          50,793
                                                                                                         293,593          248,271         541,864          545,184

                                      Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) excluding Portfolio                  74,944         (33,043)          41,901          11,019
                                      Investments Restricted for Endowments
                                         Portfolio Investments - Restricted for Endowments                 51,257          45,431           96,688          90,330

                                      Net Financial Assets                                           $   126,201     $     12,388     $   138,589     $    101,349

                                      Non-Financial Assets
                                         Tangible Capital Assets                                     $   497,362     $    706,811     $ 1,204,173     $  1,185,919
                                         Inventories of Supplies                                              471               —              471              570
                                         Prepaid Expenses                                                   4,421            2,152           6,573            5,553
                                                                                                         502,254          708,963       1,211,217        1,192,042

                                      Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital                           628,455          721,351       1,349,806        1,293,391
                                      Contributions

                                      Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                               348,133          437,419         785,552          737,623

                                      Net Assets                                                     $   280,322     $    283,932     $   564,254     $    555,768

                                      Net Assets is comprised of:
                                         Accumulated Surplus                                         $   274,178     $    278,681     $   552,859     $    543,411
                                         Accumulated Remeasurement Gains and Losses                         6,144            5,251          11,395          12,357

                                                                                                     $   280,322     $    283,932     $   564,254     $    555,768

                                       (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting
                                            Standards.  Full audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.

---PDF PAGE 117---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                            Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                          113

                                 Polytechnical Institutions (continued)
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for June 30, 2017                                                                                                                                         (in thousands)

                                                                                                                         Northern         Southern
                                                                                                                          Alberta          Alberta
                                                                                                                        Institute of     Institute of
                                                                                                                        Technology       Technology       2017 Totals      2016 Totals
                                                                                                                                                                              (Restated)

                                   Statement of Operations
                                      Revenue                                                                           $$  377,959      $$  362,457      $$  740,416      $$  711,084
                                      Expenses                                                                              384,105          351,373          735,478          696,752
                                      Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                                1,492            3,018            4,510            4,595

                                      Annual Surplus (Deficit)                                                          $$    (4,654)    $$    14,102     $$     9,448     $$    18,927

                                   Statement of Cash Flows
                                      Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                      $     15,854     $   148,112      $   163,966      $   152,422
                                      Cash Provided by Operating Transactions                                                 74,288           58,653         132,941            84,802
                                      Cash Applied to Organizational Activities                                              (59,499)         (39,173)         (98,672)         (73,258)

                                      Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                            $     30,643     $   167,592      $   198,235      $   163,966

                                   Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
                                      Annual Surplus (Deficit)                                                          $     (4,654)    $     14,102     $      9,448     $     18,927
                                      Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                    25,574            2,218           27,792          (47,706)

                                      Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) in the Year                      20,920           16,320           37,240          (28,779)

                                      Net Financial Assets (Net Debt), Beginning of Year                                    105,281            (3,932)        101,349          130,128

                                      Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                                 $   126,201      $     12,388     $   138,589      $   101,349

                                   Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                      Base Salary                                                                       $        376     $        352
                                      Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                                    120                99
                                      Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                                      236              163

                                                                                                                        $        732     $        614

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full
                                      audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                 (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability
                                      insurance, etc.

---PDF PAGE 118---
114                                               Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                     Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                Comprehensive Community Institutions
                Summary Financial Statements (1)
                for June 30, 2017                                                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                                                                                                     Grande
                                                                                                     Prairie
                                                                                   Bow Valley       Regional         Keyano         Lakeland       Lethbridge     Medicine Hat      NorQuest
                                                                                    College         College          College         College         College         College         College

                 Statement of Financial Position

                    Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments
                    Restricted for Endowments
                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                 $     12,973    $      7,842    $     20,299    $     10,833     $    26,415     $        601    $     32,099
                        Portfolio Investments - Non-Endowments                          84,183          25,726          11,708          26,879          30,707          21,986           59,500
                        Investment in Government Business Enterprises                       —               —           15,114               —               —               —               —
                        Accounts Receivable                                              6,115           1,800           2,233           3,679            1,894           1,164           5,862
                        Inventories for Resale                                              14             261             259             261              592             592             161

                                                                                      103,285           35,629          49,613          41,651          59,608          24,343           97,622

                    Liabilities
                        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                         8,973           6,678          11,424          11,447          15,161            3,342          21,822
                        Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                636           1,858               —               —               —              203           1,256
                        Debt                                                               429          14,125          22,018           1,200            7,684           2,330              —
                        Deferred Revenue                                                12,313           7,718          20,996           8,857          18,273            3,600          10,989
                        Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                           1,865           6,055               —           1,853            1,896           1,530          43,222
                        Liability for Contaminated Sites                                    —               —                —               92              —               —               —
                                                                                        24,216          36,434          54,438          23,449          43,014          11,005           77,289

                    Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) excluding Portfolio                 79,069            (805)          (4,825)        18,202          16,594          13,338           20,333
                    Investments Restricted for Endowments
                        Portfolio Investments - Restricted for Endowments                5,338           6,103           4,666           9,271          14,348            8,669           4,855

                    Net Financial Assets                                          $     84,407    $      5,298    $       (159)   $     27,473     $    30,942     $    22,007     $     25,188

                    Non-Financial Assets
                        Tangible Capital Assets                                   $   282,083     $     68,214    $    112,827    $     86,183     $   130,821     $    73,409     $   136,967
                        Inventories of Supplies                                             —               37               —           1,347                9              —               —
                        Prepaid Expenses                                                 1,180           1,200             349           1,750            1,428             651             513
                                                                                      283,263           69,451         113,176          89,280         132,258          74,060         137,480

                    Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital                          367,670           74,749         113,017         116,754         163,200          96,068         162,668
                    Contributions

                    Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                              230,627           37,132          62,333          58,176         103,803          48,356         124,452

                    Net Assets                                                    $   137,043     $     37,617    $     50,684    $     58,578     $    59,397     $    47,712     $     38,216

                    Net Assets is comprised of:
                        Accumulated Surplus                                       $   132,324     $     37,512    $     49,509    $     55,517     $    55,719     $    46,852     $     38,216
                        Accumulated Remeasurement Gains and Losses                       4,719             105           1,175           3,061            3,678             860              —

                                                                                  $   137,043     $     37,617    $     50,684    $     58,578     $    59,397     $    47,712     $     38,216

                      (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full audited financial statements
                           for these entities are available on their websites.

---PDF PAGE 119---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                         Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                       115

Comprehensive Community Institutions (continued)
Summary Financial Statements (1)
for June 30, 2017                                                                                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                                                       Grande
                                                                                                       Prairie
                                                                                    Bow Valley        Regional         Keyano          Lakeland       Lethbridge     Medicine Hat       NorQuest
                                                                                      College          College         College          College         College          College         College

 Statement of Operations
    Revenue                                                                         $$  108,886     $$    72,992     $$   67,540     $$    71,283     $$   87,765     $$    56,917     $$    91,091
    Expenses                                                                             98,464           71,405          65,121           65,202          86,644           56,635           90,546
    Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                                370               42             115             230              402               58             272

    Annual Surplus                                                                  $$   10,792     $$     1,629     $$     2,534    $$     6,311     $$     1,523    $$       340     $$       817

 Statement of Cash Flows
    Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                    $    10,128     $      1,712     $      7,579    $      4,661     $    35,821     $      2,621     $     26,473
    Cash Provided by Operating Transactions                                              13,648           11,530          18,416           17,311          21,804            2,765           85,329
    Cash Applied to Organizational Activities                                            (10,803)          (5,401)         (5,696)        (11,139)         (31,210)          (4,785)        (79,703)

    Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                          $    12,973     $      7,841     $    20,299     $     10,833     $    26,415     $        601     $     32,099

 Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
    Annual Surplus                                                                  $    10,792     $      1,629     $      2,534    $      6,311     $      1,523    $        340     $        817
    Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                  (1,267)            (560)         (8,881)          (3,850)           (637)          1,345             (384)

    Increase in Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) in the Year                                9,525           1,069           (6,347)          2,461              886           1,684              433

    Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                              74,882            4,229            6,188          25,012          30,056           20,323           24,755

    Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                               $    84,407     $      5,298     $       (159)   $     27,473     $    30,942     $     22,007     $     25,188

 Salary and Benefits of President Positions
    Base Salary                                                                     $        468    $        358     $        262    $        275     $        348    $        240     $        301
    Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                                  168               —              116               —               11                7              84
    Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                                     27               33                6              35              33               52              94

                                                                                    $        663    $        391     $        384    $        310     $        392    $        299     $        479

(1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full audited financial statements for these entities are
    available on their websites.
(2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
(3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance, etc.

---PDF PAGE 120---
116                                               Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                      Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                Comprehensive Community Institutions (continued)
                                Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                for June 30, 2017                                                                                                                                   (in thousands)


                                                                                                    Northern
                                                                                                      Lakes            Olds           Portage        Red Deer
                                                                                                     College          College         College         College       2017 Totals      2016 Totals
                                                                                                                                                                                        (Restated)

                                  Statement of Financial Position

                                     Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments
                                     Restricted for Endowments
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                  $      8,703    $      8,538     $      7,206    $      2,884    $    138,393    $    113,818
                                        Portfolio Investments - Non-Endowments                           20,154          20,382            1,694          75,846         378,765         292,318
                                        Investment in Government Business Enterprises                        —            1,909               —               —           17,023          16,233
                                        Accounts Receivable                                               2,498           2,958              925           9,382          38,510          46,159
                                        Inventories for Resale                                               30             752              178              —            3,100            3,325

                                                                                                         31,385          34,539          10,003           88,112         575,791         471,853

                                     Liabilities
                                        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                          4,091           8,017            2,188          24,100         117,243          95,877
                                        Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                 495               —              160           2,198           6,806            6,792
                                        Debt                                                              2,019               —              106          56,518         106,429          56,509
                                        Deferred Revenue                                                  8,090          14,348            3,181          19,419         127,784         112,149
                                        Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                            1,975           3,363            1,734           5,425          68,918          50,929
                                        Liability for Contaminated Sites                                     —                —               —               —                92              94
                                                                                                         16,670          25,728            7,369        107,660          427,272         322,350

                                     Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) excluding Portfolio                 14,715           8,811            2,634         (19,548)        148,519         149,502
                                     Investments Restricted for Endowments
                                        Portfolio Investments - Restricted for Endowments                 2,112           9,562            2,334          25,314          92,571          88,684

                                     Net Financial Assets                                          $     16,827    $     18,373     $      4,968    $      5,766    $    241,090    $    238,186

                                     Non-Financial Assets
                                        Tangible Capital Assets                                    $     36,286    $     71,470     $    54,027     $   156,784     $  1,209,071    $  1,110,427
                                        Inventories of Supplies                                             392               —               46              73           1,905            1,859
                                        Prepaid Expenses                                                    253             824              577             994           9,719            9,573
                                                                                                         36,931          72,294          54,650         157,852        1,220,695       1,121,859

                                     Net Assets before Spent Deferred                                    53,758          90,667          59,618         163,617        1,461,786       1,360,045
                                     Capital Contributions

                                     Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                28,086          58,482          44,684         105,935          902,066         836,171

                                     Net Assets                                                    $     25,672    $     32,185     $    14,934     $     57,682    $    559,720    $    523,874

                                     Net Assets is comprised of:
                                        Accumulated Surplus                                        $     24,829    $     31,119     $    14,792     $     52,041    $    538,430    $    506,659
                                        Accumulated Remeasurement Gains and Losses                          843           1,066              142           5,641          21,290          17,216

                                                                                                   $     25,672    $     32,185     $    14,934     $     57,682    $    559,720    $    523,874

                                       (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full audited
                                           financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.

---PDF PAGE 121---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                          Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                       117

                Comprehensive Community Institutions (continued)
                Summary Financial Statements (1)
                for June 30, 2017                                                                                                                                                      (in thousands)


                                                                                                      Northern
                                                                                                        Lakes            Olds           Portage         Red Deer
                                                                                                       College          College         College          College       2017 Totals      2016 Totals
                                                                                                                                                                                           (Restated)

                  Statement of Operations
                     Revenue                                                                         $$    43,751    $$    60,326     $$    37,320    $$   104,417     $$  802,288      $$  782,749
                     Expenses                                                                              41,529          59,666           35,804         101,920         772,936          745,387
                     Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                                 45             122               46              718           2,420            2,715

                     Annual Surplus                                                                  $$     2,267    $$       782     $$     1,562    $$      3,216    $$    31,772     $$   40,078

                  Statement of Cash Flows
                     Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                    $      4,983    $     11,825     $      5,620    $       2,394    $   113,818      $   139,680
                     Cash Provided by Operating Transactions                                                7,540           3,939            3,906          27,481         213,668          134,103
                     Cash Applied to Organizational Activities                                             (3,820)          (7,226)         (2,320)        (26,991)        (189,094)       (159,966)

                     Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                          $      8,703    $      8,538     $      7,206    $       2,884    $   138,392      $   113,817

                  Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
                     Annual Surplus                                                                  $      2,267    $        782     $      1,562    $       3,216    $     31,772     $    40,078
                     Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                     421             318             (177)        (27,120)         (40,792)         (15,988)

                     Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) in the Year                     2,688           1,100            1,385         (23,904)          (9,020)         24,090

                     Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                               14,139          17,273            3,583          29,670         250,110          214,096

                     Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                               $     16,827    $     18,373     $      4,968    $       5,766    $   241,090      $   238,186

                  Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                     Base Salary                                                                     $        224    $        270     $        231    $         338
                     Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                                     7            129               —                —
                     Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                                     34               31              36              211

                                                                                                     $        265    $        430     $        267    $         549

                (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full audited financial statements for
                     these entities are available on their websites.
                (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance, etc.

---PDF PAGE 122---
118                                               Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                       Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions
                                Summary Financial Statements (1)                                                                                                                    (in thousands)

                                                                                                   for June 30, 2017                for March 31, 2018
                                                                                                       Alberta College of
                                                                                                           Art + Design                  The Banff Centre
                                                                                                       2017            2016             2018            2017
                                                                                                                                                       (Restated)

                                  Statement of Financial Position

                                     Financial Assets excluding Portfolio Investments
                                     Restricted for Endowments
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                  $      6,011     $      6,332    $     14,459    $      9,886
                                        Portfolio Investments - Non-Endowments                            6,275            5,640          17,984          19,672
                                        Accounts Receivable                                                 243              278           6,849           4,475
                                        Inventories for Resale                                              182              222             267             250

                                                                                                         12,711          12,472           39,559          34,283

                                     Liabilities
                                        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                          2,293            2,451           8,781           8,389
                                        Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                                    7              —            2,948           3,137
                                        Debt                                                                115               62          17,858           3,301
                                        Deferred Revenue                                                  6,264            6,275          29,107          31,562
                                        Unspent Deferred Capital Contributions                              586            1,240           4,185           1,954
                                                                                                          9,265          10,028           62,879          48,343

                                     Net Financial Assets (Net Debt) excluding Portfolio                  3,446            2,444         (23,320)        (14,060)
                                     Investments Restricted for Endowments
                                        Portfolio Investments - Restricted for Endowments                 6,091            5,804          40,476          38,957

                                     Net Financial Assets                                          $      9,537     $      8,248    $     17,156    $     24,897

                                     Non-Financial Assets
                                        Tangible Capital Assets                                    $      5,098     $      4,851    $   145,421     $    137,862
                                        Inventories of Supplies                                             293              241             142             153
                                        Prepaid Expenses                                                    171              149             305           1,017
                                                                                                          5,562            5,241        145,868          139,032

                                     Net Assets before Spent Deferred Capital                            15,099          13,489         163,024          163,929
                                     Contributions

                                     Spent Deferred Capital Contributions                                 4,225            3,952        106,501          109,511

                                     Net Assets                                                    $     10,874     $      9,537    $     56,523    $     54,418

                                     Net Assets is comprised of:
                                        Accumulated Surplus                                        $     10,782     $      9,537    $     56,523    $     54,418
                                        Accumulated Remeasurement Gains and Losses                            92              —               —                —

                                                                                                   $     10,874     $      9,537    $     56,523    $     54,418

                                       (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting
                                            Standards.  Full audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.

---PDF PAGE 123---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                          Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                         119

                                 Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions (continued)
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)                                                                                                                       (in thousands)

                                                                                                                      for June 30, 2017                 for March 31, 2018
                                                                                                                          Alberta College of
                                                                                                                              Art + Design                   The Banff Centre
                                                                                                                          2017             2016            2018             2017

                                   Statement of Operations
                                      Revenue                                                                         $$    24,557     $$    23,021    $$    69,674     $$    67,405
                                      Expenses                                                                              23,474           22,115          69,089           66,174
                                      Endowment Contributions and Capitalized Investment Income                                162              289            1,519            2,775

                                      Annual Surplus                                                                  $$     1,245     $$     1,195    $$      2,104    $$      4,006

                                   Statement of Cash Flows
                                      Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                    $      6,332     $      6,060    $       9,886    $       7,095
                                      Cash Provided by (Applied to) Operating Transactions                                   1,078            2,565           (2,843)           3,805
                                      Cash Provided by (Applied to) Organizational Activities                                (1,399)         (2,293)           7,416           (1,014)

                                      Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                          $      6,011     $      6,332    $     14,459     $       9,886

                                   Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets
                                      Annual Surplus                                                                  $      1,245     $      1,195    $       2,104    $       4,006
                                      Changes to Accounts Relating to Non-Financial Assets                                       44            (529)          (9,845)          (7,591)

                                      Increase (Decrease) in Net Financial Assets in the Year                                1,289              666           (7,741)          (3,585)

                                      Net Financial Assets, Beginning of Year                                                8,248            7,582          24,897           28,482

                                      Net Financial Assets, End of Year                                               $      9,537     $      8,248    $     17,156     $     24,897

                                   Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                      Base Salary                                                                     $        252                     $         300
                                      Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                                    17                               53
                                      Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                                      83                              121

                                                                                                                      $        352                     $         474

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full
                                      audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include vacation payouts and bonuses (where applicable).
                                 (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability
                                      insurance, etc.

---PDF PAGE 124---
120                               Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                          Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018















             advancededucation.alberta.ca/ministry/reports/annualreports/

---PDF PAGE 125---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                           Other Information                                            121







                        Other Information                                                                                         Unaudited Information
                           Statement of Remissions, Compromises and Write-offs                                                                  122
                           Statement of Guarantees and Indemnities                                                                              122

---PDF PAGE 126---
122                                                       Other Information                                                         Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


                             Statement of Remissions, Compromises and Write-offs
                              for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                   (in thousands)(in thousands)
                             The following statement has been prepared pursuant to Section 23 of the Financial Administration Act.  This statement
                             includes all remissions, compromises and write-offs made or approved during the fiscal period.

                               Compromises under Section 22 of the Financial Administration Act                                                        $         50

                               Bankruptcies:
                                  Income Support                                                                                                                  3

                               Write-offs:
                                  Implemented Guarantees, Indemnities, Loans and Advances – Section 20 of the Student Financial Assistance Act              19,947
                                  Income Support                                                                                                               935
                                                                                                                                                            20,882

                               Total remissions, compromises and write-offs                                                                            $    20,935

                             Statement of Guarantees and Indemnities given by the Crown and Provincial Corporations
                              for the year ended March 31, 2018                                                                                                   (in thousands)(in thousands)
                             The following has been prepared pursuant to Section 75 of the Financial Administration Act.  The statement
                             summarizes the amounts of all guarantees given by the Crown through the Ministry of Advanced Education under the
                             Student Loan Act for the year ended March 31, 2018, the amounts paid to financial institutions as a result of the
                             guaranteed loan program, and the amounts recovered on debts owing as a result of payments under guarantees.

                                                              Amount of
                                                              Guarantee      Payments       Recoveries

                               Crown Guarantees              $         —    $          3   $         27

---PDF PAGE 127---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                           Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports                       123







                        Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports
                          Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act                                                          124

---PDF PAGE 128---
124                                     Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports                                      Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018

                                Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act
                                   Chief officer’s annual report
                                     32(1)    Every chief officer must prepare a report annually on all disclosures that have been made to the
                                              designated officer of the department, public entity or office of the Legislature for which the chief
                                              officer is responsible.
                                        (2)   The report under subsection (1) must include the following information:
                                                 (a)   the number of disclosures received by the designated officer, the number of disclosures acted on
                                                       and the number of disclosures not acted on by the designated officer;
                                                 (b)   the number of investigations commenced by the designated officer as a result of disclosures;
                                                 (c)   in the case of an investigation that results in a finding of wrongdoing, a description of the
                                                       wrongdoing and any recommendations made or corrective measures taken in relation to the
                                                       wrongdoing or the reasons why no corrective measure was taken.
                                        (3)   The report under subsection (1) must be included in the annual report of the department, public entity
                                              or office of the Legislature if the annual report is made publicly available, and if the annual report is not
                                              made publicly available, the chief officer must make the report under subsection (1) available to the
                                              public on request.

                                Summary of inquiries, disclosures, investigations, and reports made under the Public Interest Disclosure
                                (Whistleblower Protection) Act for the Department of Advanced Education during 2017-18.
                                     There were no disclosures of wrongdoing for the Department of Advanced Education during 2017-18.

                                The department’s agencies make whistleblower disclosures in their own annual reports.  Full information for these
                                agencies are available on their websites.

---PDF PAGE 129---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                       Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology                      125







                      Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology
                        Performance Measure 1.a                                                                                    126
                        Performance Measure 1.b                                                                                    127
                        Performance Indicator 1.a                                                                                  127
                        Performance Indicator 1.b                                                                                  128
                        Performance Indicator 1.c                                                                                  128
                        Performance Measure 2.a                                                                                    129
                        Performance Measure 2.b                                                                                    129
                        Performance Indicator 2.a                                                                                  130
                        Performance Indicator 2.b                                                                                  130
                        Performance Measure 3.a                                                                                    131

---PDF PAGE 130---
126                                      Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology                                          Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


   Performance               Percentage of students entering post-secondary programs (including apprenticeship) within ten
      Measure                years of entering Grade 10 (biennial survey)
          1.a                This measure reports the percentage of Alberta students in public, separate, francophone, charter and accredited
                             private schools who made the transition to post-secondary education, including apprenticeship programs, within ten
                             years of entering Grade 10.  The result of this measure is calculated by dividing the number of students who enter
                             Alberta’s post-secondary programs, adjusted for an estimate of out-of-province post-secondary attenders, by the
                             number of students in the Grade 10 cohort, adjusted for attrition.  Students from the Grade 10 cohort are counted as
                             in-province post-secondary attenders if they are registered in a post-secondary level program at an Alberta
                             post-secondary institution or if they are registered in an apprenticeship program in Alberta.

                                      In-province post-secondary attenders + Estimate of out-of-province post-secondary attenders                           × 100%
                                                                          Grade 10 cohort     Attribution factor−

                             Students from the Grade 10 cohort must be identified as participating in post-secondary education within ten years
                             of starting Grade 10 to be counted in this transition rate.  For example, a student who starts Grade 10 in
                             September 2007 (at the start of the 2007-08 school year) and is identified as participating in post-secondary
                             education by the 2016-17 academic year is considered to have entered the post-secondary system within ten years of
                             starting Grade 10.
                             Students are considered to have entered the post-secondary system if they attend a credit program, part-time or
                             full-time, in a publicly funded post-secondary institution in Alberta.  Information on post-secondary enrolments
                             incorporates post-secondary Classification of Instructional Programs coding to better identify students enrolled in
                             programs that are not deemed to be post-secondary level (e.g., academic upgrading).  Students in these kinds of
                             programs are not considered transitioners for the purpose of this measure.
                             Students are also considered to have entered the post-secondary system if they have registered in an apprenticeship
                             program.  A student registered in the Registered Apprenticeship Program (RAP) is not considered to have entered the
                             post-secondary system as students in RAP are high school students.  The Alberta Student Number is used to match
                             students from the Grade 10 cohort with the apprentices in Advanced Education’s Apprenticeship, Trade and
                             Occupation Management System.
                             Students who are identified as both attending a post-secondary institution and having registered in an
                             apprenticeship program are reported as attending a post-secondary institution to avoid double counting.  Advanced
                             Education does not specifically track Alberta students who participate in post-secondary programs outside of Alberta.
                             An estimate of the number of students who have left the province to pursue post-secondary education is therefore
                             factored into the calculation of this measure.
                             For more detail on the methodology, see Student Outcomes Measures Based on the Grade 10 Cohort –
                             Methodologies for Rates Calculation.
                             Link  education.alberta.ca/media/3576211/methodology-student-outcome-measures_-2017-final.pdf

---PDF PAGE 131---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                          Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology                                          127


   Performance               Percentage of recent post-secondary graduates who state that their program was worth the
      Measure                financial cost (biennial survey)
          1.b                The results for this measure are obtained through the Graduate Outcomes Survey.  This survey is conducted biennially
                             with graduates approximately two years after their graduation from a publicly funded post-secondary institution in
                             Alberta (except the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity).  For example, the 2016 survey is conducted with the class of
                             2013-14 graduates.
                             The target participants for this measure are graduates (both domestic and international) from 25 publicly funded
                             post-secondary institutions (credit parchment programs only) in Alberta.  Apprenticeship students who completed
                             the technical training portion of their apprenticeship program at a publicly funded post-secondary institution are
                             excluded.
                             A census approach was used for publicly funded institutions with less than 1,500 graduates, and a stratified sampling
                             approach was used for larger institutions with more than 1,500 graduates.  Data is collected through a telephone
                             survey or an internet survey based on students’ preference.  From a total valid sample of 40,979 (after removing
                             duplicate cases), a total of 15,653 surveys were completed, including 8,615 completes by phone and 7,038 completes
                             via web.  The gross response rate was 38.2%.  At the system level, the survey’s margin of error was ±0.6%, at the 95%
                             confidence level.
                             The results of this measure are determined using the survey question “To what extent do you agree with the following
                             statement: Given the benefits of post-secondary education, I consider the [name of program] program to be worth
                             the financial cost to me and/or my family?  Do you...?  Strongly disagree / Disagree / Agree / Strongly agree / Don't
                             know / No response”.  The percentage is calculated by dividing the combined total of “Agree” and “Strongly Agree”
                             responses by the total number of respondents who completed this survey question.  “Don't know” and “No response”
                             responses are excluded from the results calculation.
                             For more detail on the methodology, see Alberta Graduate Outcomes Survey, Class of 2013/2014, Publicly-Funded
                             Institutions Report.
                             Link  advancededucation.alberta.ca/media/497571/graduate-outcomes-survey-class-of-2013-14.pdf


 Performance                 Total enrolment at publicly funded post-secondary institutions
 Indicator                   Total enrolment (headcount) is defined as the total number of unique (unduplicated) learners (both domestic and
 1.a                         international) who are actively enrolled (either full-time or part-time) in an approved program at a publicly funded
                             post-secondary institution in Alberta at any point during an academic year.
                             The enrolment data is submitted to Advanced Education by each of the publicly funded post-secondary institutions.
                             Data is reviewed and validated by the Operational Data and Information Branch (ODI) in Advanced Education until
                             both ODI and the institution are in agreement with the submission.  Apprenticeship data is then added to each
                             institutional submission.  The apprenticeship data comes from the Apprenticeship, Trade and Occupation
                             Management System (ATOMS), which is managed by the Apprenticeship and Industry Training Branch (AIT) within the
                             ministry.  Prior to appending this data, AIT validates and confirms all data as accurate.
                             The manager of Enrolment Data and Accountability completes a final review prior to sending out a sign-off package
                             to the institution.  The package is then signed off by each institution’s vice president before being considered final.
                             Enrolment data is used for reporting and publications only after all institutions have finalized their submissions.
                             The unique counts are calculated using the Alberta Student Number (ASN), so that students attending more than one
                             institution will be counted only once at the system level.  For records without ASN values, a combination of the
                             provider and institutional student ID is used.  The total enrolment (headcount) is calculated by taking a unique count
                             of the number of ASN values (including proxy values for records without ASNs) with active enrolment records at all
                             institutions during the academic year.
                             As the enrolment data describes only provincially-approved programming at publicly funded post-secondary
                             institutions in Alberta, the enrolment headcount at the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity is excluded in this
                             indicator.  The Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity does not offer any ministry-approved programming.

---PDF PAGE 132---
128                                      Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology                                           Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Performance                 Apprenticeship technical training seats offered
 Indicator                   Each February, Apprenticeship and Industry Training, Apprenticeship Technical Training forecasts the demand for
 1.b                         technical training seats based on the number of actual registered apprentices and past apprenticeship technical
                             training attendance trends.  These forecasts are used to establish initial seats with each post-secondary institution
                             (PSI), taking into account preferred class sizes and the minimum number of seats required to operate the program at
                             each PSI.  Every initial seat is funded regardless of whether or not it is actually ever filled.  Throughout the academic
                             year, demand is monitored and, if it is required and possible to do so, additional seats are added to meet the demand.
                             Generally these additional seats are filled and funded.


 Performance                 Percentage of Albertans aged 18 to 34 participating in post-secondary education
 Indicator                   The data for this indicator is obtained from a custom tabulation performed by Statistics Canada based on the
 1.c                         information collected by its Labour Force Survey (LFS).  LFS is a monthly household survey of a sample of individuals.
                             The target population is the non-institutionalized population 15 years of age and over.  Recently, the monthly LFS
                             sample size has been approximately 5,690 households for Alberta.
                             The post-secondary education (PSE) participants are identified by using the following questions from the LFS:
                             „   “Last week, was … attending a school, college or university?”
                             „   “Was he/she enrolled as a full-time or part-time student?”
                             „   “What kind of school was this?”
                             Responses that indicate attending a university, college or other post-secondary institution at the time of interview are
                             used to calculate the performance indicator results.
                             The percentage of Albertans aged 18 to 34 participating in post-secondary education is calculated by dividing the
                             estimated number of individuals aged 18 to 34 who report attending a university, college or other post-secondary
                             institution in Alberta (numerator) by the estimated number of Albertans aged 18 to 34 (denominator), based on the
                             Alberta sample.  The sample data are weighted to enable tabulation of estimates at the provincial level of
                             aggregation.
                             In order to account for the fact that many post-secondary students attend school during the fall and winter semesters
                             while working during the summer, the calculation for this indicator uses an 8-month average (January – April and
                             September – December).
                             The 18 to 34 age group represents the majority of the learners participating in post-secondary education; however, it
                             does not capture all learners in the post-secondary system.  For example, the data includes students (including
                             international students and students studying outside of Alberta) whose primary residence is in Alberta during their
                             studies but does not include individuals who live on reserves and other Indigenous settlements or those who study
                             only between May and August.
                             Strategic Research and Analysis calculates PSE participation rates based on custom tables received from Statistics
                             Canada on an annual basis.  Strategic Planning and Evaluation provides results analysis and interpretation for this
                             indicator in the annual report.

---PDF PAGE 133---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                          Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology                                           129


   Performance               Satisfaction of recent post-secondary graduates with the overall quality of their educational
      Measure                experience (biennial survey)
          2.a                The results for this measure are obtained through the Graduate Outcomes Survey.  This survey is conducted biennially
                             with graduates approximately two years after their graduation from a publicly funded post-secondary institution in
                             Alberta (except the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity).  For example, the 2016 survey is conducted with the class of
                             2013-14 graduates.
                             The target participants for this measure are graduates (both domestic and international) from 25 publicly funded
                             post-secondary institutions (credit parchment programs only) in Alberta.  Apprenticeship students who completed
                             the technical training portion of their apprenticeship program at a publicly funded post-secondary institution are
                             excluded.
                             A census approach was used for publicly funded institutions with less than 1,500 graduates, and a stratified sampling
                             approach was used for larger institutions with more than 1,500 graduates.  Data is collected through a telephone
                             survey or an internet survey based on students’ preference.  From a total valid sample of 40,979 (after removing
                             duplicate cases), a total of 15,653 surveys were completed, including 8,615 completes by phone and 7,038 completes
                             via web.  The gross response rate was 38.2%.  At the system level, the survey’s margin of error was ±0.6%, at the 95%
                             confidence level.
                             The results of this measure are determined using the survey question “How satisfied are you with the overall quality of
                             your educational experience?”.  The question is based on a four-point scale: “Very dissatisfied”, “Dissatisfied”, “Satisfied”
                             and “Very satisfied”.  The satisfaction rate is calculated by dividing the combined total of “Satisfied” and “Very satisfied”
                             responses by the total number of respondents who completed this survey question.  “Don't know” and “No response”
                             responses are excluded from the results calculation.
                             For more detail on the methodology, see Alberta Graduate Outcomes Survey, Class of 2013/2014, Publicly-Funded
                             Institutions Report.

                              Link advancededucation.alberta.ca/media/497571/graduate-outcomes-survey-class-of-2013-14.pdf

   Performance               Satisfaction of recent apprenticeship graduates with on-the-job training and technical training
      Measure                (biennial survey)
          2.b                Results of this measure are obtained from the Survey of Graduates of the Apprenticeship and Industry Training
                             System.  This is a biennial survey of recent apprenticeship graduates who are asked about their experiences in the
                             apprenticeship program.  Results of the survey are used to improve program delivery and ensure that standards are
                             met.  An independent consultant (Advanis) was hired to conduct the survey with apprenticeship graduates.
                             The target respondents are Albertans who were registered apprentices during the 2016-2017 school year
                             (August 1, 2016 to July 31, 2017) and, during that time, completed all the requirements to become a certified
                             journeyperson in a trade.  Two targeted groups (cohorts) of graduates were surveyed:
                             „   Cohort 1: individuals who completed both the technical and on-the-job training requirements of the
                                 apprenticeship program in 2016-2017.
                             „   Cohort 2: individuals who completed the on-the-job training in 2016-2017 but did not take the technical training
                                 portion of the program in that school year.
                             The survey population provided to the contractor was extracted from the Apprenticeship, Trade and Occupation
                             Management System (ATOMS).  A census approach is used for the survey—all graduates are invited to participate.
                             The 2018 survey was conducted between November 27, 2017 and February 1, 2018 (with a break for telephone
                             survey during Christmas and New Year).  Graduates were contacted by email and telephone.  A total of 5,173
                             graduates were surveyed (2,532 by telephone and 2,641 online).  The overall survey response rate was 54.9%.  The
                             margin of error was ±1.0%, 19 times out of 20.
                             The percentage of recent apprenticeship graduates who are satisfied with on-the-job training is determined using the
                             survey question “How satisfied were you with your on-the-job training during your apprenticeship in terms of the
                             overall quality of your on-the-job training?”.  The percentage satisfied with technical training is determined using the
                             question “Generally, how satisfied were you with your technical training in terms of the overall quality of your
                             technical training?”.
                             Satisfaction questions are based on a four-point scale: “Very satisfied,” “Somewhat satisfied,” “Somewhat dissatisfied,”
                             and “Very dissatisfied.”  The satisfaction rate is calculated by dividing the combined total of “Somewhat satisfied” and
                             “Very satisfied” responses by the total number of respondents who completed the survey question, including the
                             “Don't know” and “Refused” responses.
                             For more detail on the methodology, see the Comprehensive Report – 2018 Survey of 2016/2017 Graduates of the
                             Apprenticeship Training.

                              Link tradesecrets.alberta.ca/SOURCES/PDFS/Publications/2016-2017_Graduates_Apprenticeship_Programs_survey.pdf

---PDF PAGE 134---
130                                     Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology                                          Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


 Performance                Percentage of clients reporting they are either employed or in further education or training after
 Indicator                  leaving a skills training program
 2.a                        The results of this indicator are obtained through the Work Outcomes Reporting Project (WORP) Survey.  WORP
                            collects administrative data from MOBIUS to identify the survey population.  The programs included in Skills Training
                            fall under the categories of Work Foundations (WF) and Training for Work (TFW).  An independent consultant
                            (Malatest) is contracted to contact former program participants three months after they have left a WF or TFW
                            program.
                            WORP uses a census approach for Advanced Education clients who have attended skills training programs, meaning
                            that all clients who have taken these programs are contacted for inclusion in the survey.  Data is collected through
                            telephone interviews or an online survey.  The sample size for the 2017 result was 1,849.  The survey response rate
                            was 32.95 per cent.  The margin of error was 2.28 per cent, at the 95 per cent level of confidence.
                            The results for this indicator are calculated based on the clients who have participated in Advanced Education’s
                            foundational learning programs and were surveyed between January and December 2017.  As surveys are conducted
                            three months after an individual leaves their program, this survey period corresponds to those who left their program
                            between September 1, 2016 and August 31, 2017.
                            The percentage of clients employed or in further education/training post-intervention is determined using the
                            following question: “What is your current main activity?  Are you employed, self-employed, in school/training,
                            unemployed, retired, don’t know, no response?”  Responses that indicate “employed”, “self-employed”, or “in
                            school/training” are used to calculate the performance indicator results.
                            The percentage is obtained by dividing the weighted sum of respondents who report “employed”, “self-employed” or
                            “in school/training” divided by the weighted sum of all respondents, among all foundational learning  programs.
                            “Don't know” and non-responses are excluded from the calculation.  This indicator utilizes the weighted responses of
                            survey participants so that the result more accurately represents the population of all program participants.


 Performance                Sponsored research revenue attracted by Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and Research
 Indicator                  Institutions
 2.b                        Sponsored research revenue data is collected directly from the Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                            (CARIs).  The CARIs derive the data from a combination of audited financial statements and supplemental financial
                            reports, and submit the data using a template and guidelines that outline the information required and specific
                            instructions regarding how the revenue should be reported.
                            The guidelines were developed by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (EDT) for corresponding annual
                            reporting submissions by the CARIs to the Canadian Association of University Business Officers (CAUBO), in order to
                            report on Total Sponsored Research Revenue at Alberta’s universities.  As such, the data reported by the ministry is
                            consistent with the data published by CAUBO.  CARIs are required to follow the CAUBO reporting guidelines for the
                            appropriate year.
                            Once the template is filled out and submitted by each CARI, the reported data is compiled and analyzed by EDT in the
                            Sponsored Research Revenue: Research Funding at Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                            report.  The results of this indicator are calculated by summing the total annual sponsored research revenue of the
                            four CARIs over each fiscal year.

---PDF PAGE 135---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                           Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology                                           131


   Performance               Percentage of post-secondary transfer graduates satisfied with the transfer credit they received
      Measure                (biennial survey)
          3.a                The results for this measure are obtained through the Graduate Outcomes Survey.  This survey is conducted biennially
                             with graduates approximately two years after their graduation from a publicly funded post-secondary institution in
                             Alberta (except the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity).  For example, the 2016 survey is conducted with the class of
                             2013-14 graduates.
                             The target participants for this measure are graduates (both domestic and international) from 25 publicly funded
                             post-secondary institutions (credit parchment programs only) in Alberta.  Apprenticeship students who completed
                             the technical training portion of their apprenticeship program at a publicly funded post-secondary institution are
                             excluded.
                             A census approach was used for publicly funded institutions with less than 1,500 graduates, and a stratified sampling
                             approach was used for larger institutions with more than 1,500 graduates.  Data is collected through a telephone
                             survey or an internet survey based on students’ preference.  From a total valid sample of 40,979 (after removing
                             duplicate cases), a total of 15,653 surveys were completed, including 8,615 completes by phone and 7,038 completes
                             via web.  The gross response rate was 38.2%.  At the system level, the survey’s margin of error was ±0.6%, at the 95%
                             confidence level.
                             The results of this measure are determined using the survey question “How satisfied were you with the transfer credit
                             that you received?”.  The question is based on a four-point scale: “Very dissatisfied”, “Dissatisfied”, “Satisfied” and “Very
                             satisfied”.  To be able to answer this question, respondents need to answer “Yes” to both questions below:
                             „   Did you complete any post-secondary courses, not including adult upgrading, prior to enrolling in the (name of
                                 program) program at (name of institution)?
                             „   In completing requirements for the (name of program) program, did you receive transfer credit or advanced
                                 standing for courses taken at any other institution?
                             The satisfaction rate is then calculated by dividing the combined total of “Satisfied” and “Very satisfied” responses by
                             the total number of survey respondents who received transfer credit or advanced standing for courses taken at any
                             other institution.  “Don't know” and “No response” responses are excluded from the results calculation.
                             For more detail on the methodology, see the Alberta Graduate Outcomes Survey, Class of 2013/2014, Publicly-Funded
                             Institutions Report.
                              Link  advancededucation.alberta.ca/media/497571/graduate-outcomes-survey-class-of-2013-14.pdf

---PDF PAGE 136---
132                             Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology                       Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018















             advancededucation.alberta.ca/ministry/reports/annualreports/

---PDF PAGE 137---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                Appendix                                                  133







                         Appendix

                             Table 1    Six Sector Post-Secondary Institutions                                                                    134

                             Table 2    First Nations Colleges                                                                                    136

                             Table 3    Programs Realignment between Ministries                                                                   137

---PDF PAGE 138---
134                                                        Appendix                                                          Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


  Table 1     Post-Secondary Institutions by Sector

Institutional Sector                                                                 Post-Secondary Institutions

Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions                                     Athabasca University                                  athabascau.ca
These universities provide undergraduate and graduate degrees,                       University of Alberta                                 ualberta.ca
and undertake comprehensive research activity.  While instruction                    University of Calgary                                 ucalgary.ca
remains the core business of the Comprehensive Academic and
Research Institutions, research activity is primarily conducted in this              University of Lethbridge                              uleth.ca
sector.

Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions                                       MacEwan University                                    macewan.ca
These universities provide undergraduate programming and offer                       Mount Royal University                                mtroyal.ca
certificate, diploma, applied degree and baccalaureate degree
programs in specified areas.

Polytechnical Institutions                                                           Northern Alberta Institute of Technology              nait.ca
These institutes provide apprenticeship, certificate, and diploma                    Southern Alberta Institute of Technology              sait.ca
programs geared predominantly to technical careers, and some
applied and baccalaureate degrees in specified areas (limited to
undergraduate programs).

Comprehensive Community Institutions                                                 Bow Valley College                                    bowvalleycollege.ca
These colleges provide a broad range of programming including                        Grande Prairie Regional College                       gprc.ab.ca
apprenticeship, certificate, diploma, foundational learning and                      Keyano College                                        keyano.ca
upgrading.  They also provide university transfer (years one and
two) and applied degrees.  Baccalaureate degrees are provided,                       Lakeland College                                      lakelandcollege.ca
when feasible, primarily in collaboration with a degree-granting                     Lethbridge College                                    lethbridgecollege.ca
institution.
                                                                                     Medicine Hat College                                  mhc.ab.ca
                                                                                     NorQuest College                                      norquest.ca
                                                                                     Northern Lakes College                                northernlakescollege.ca
                                                                                     Olds College                                          oldscollege.ca
                                                                                     Portage College                                       portagecollege.ca
                                                                                     Red Deer College                                      rdc.ab.ca

Independent Academic Institutions                                                    Ambrose University                                    ambrose.edu
These universities primarily provide liberal arts, science, and                      Burman University                                     burmanu.ca
education baccalaureate programs.                                                    Concordia University of Edmonton                      concordia.ab.ca

                                                                                     St. Mary’s University                                 stmu.ca
                                                                                     The King’s University                                 kingsu.ca

Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions                                            Alberta College of Art + Design                       acad.ca
These institutions concentrate on the fine arts, cultural                            Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity                  banffcentre.ca
programming and professional development.


Source   Institutional arrangement under the Six Sector Model. Link advancededucation.alberta.ca/media/155107/sixsectormodel.pdf
  Note   The Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity is excluded in the results for performance measures 1.a, 1.b, 2.a, and 3.a and performance indicator 1.a.

---PDF PAGE 139---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                                           Appendix                                                                    135
      Publicly Funded Post-Secondary Institutions                                                                                                        Main Campuses / Service Regions















                                                                                                                                 Keyano Region


                                                                                       Northern Lakes Region
                                                                                                                                    Fort McMurray                     Keyano College






      Northern Lakes College                                                                Grouard
      Grande Prairie Regional College                          Grande Prairie                           Slave Lake


      Athabasca University                                                                                       Athabasca        Lac La Biche                        Portage College


                                                             Grande Prairie Region                                                     Portage Region
                                                                                                      Edmonton Region

      University of Alberta                                                                                          Edmonton
      MacEwan University                                                                                                                       Vermilion              Lakeland College
      Northern Alberta Institute of Technology                                                                                            Lakeland Region
      NorQuest College
      Concordia University of Edmonton                                                                             Lacombe                                            Burman University
      The King’s University
                                                                                             Central Region
                                                                                                                  Red Deer                                            Red Deer College

                                                                                                                  Olds                                                Olds College
      Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity                                                        Banff   Calgary Region

      University of Calgary                                                                                      Calgary
      Mount Royal University                                                                                                            Medicine Hat Region
      Southern Alberta Institute of Technology
      Bow Valley College                                                                                                                         Medicine Hat         Medicine Hat College
      Alberta College of Art + Design                                          University of Lethbridge                      Lethbridge
      Ambrose University                                                       Lethbridge College
      St. Mary’s University                                                                                          Lethbridge Region

---PDF PAGE 140---
136                                                          Appendix                                                            Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018


  Table 2     First Nations Colleges


































                                                                                                        University nuhelot’įne thaiyots’į
                                                                                                        nistameymâkanak Blue Quills
                                                                                                                                 St. Paul
                                                                                                             Yellowhead Tribal College
                                                                                                               Edmonton


                                                                                                             Maskwacis Cultural College
                                                                                                               Maskwacis









                                                                                                                 Old Sun Community College
                                                                                                                    Siksika







                                                                                                               Red Crow Community College
                                                                                                                 Cardston



                                Maskwacis Cultural College                                                              mccedu.ca
                                Old Sun Community College                                                               oldsuncollege.ca
                                Red Crow Community College                                                              redcrowcollege.com
                                University nuhelot’įne thaiyots’į nistameymâkanak Blue Quills                           bluequills.ca
                                Yellowhead Tribal College                                                               ytced.ab.ca

---PDF PAGE 141---
Advanced Education Annual Report 2017-2018                                                Appendix                                                  137


  Table 3   Programs Realignment between Ministries

Program Group            Service                                                               Ministry
Training for             Apprenticeship Training                                               Advanced Education
                                                                                               Student Aid
Work                                                                                           Advanced Education
                         Occupational Training (over 12 weeks)                                 Student Aid

                         Occupational Training Tuitions Based Full-Time -                      Advanced Education
                         Alberta Funded (under 12 weeks) «                                     Foundational Learning Supports

                         Transitional Vocational Program «                                     Advanced Education
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
                         Immigrant Bridging «                                                  Advanced Education                    Labour
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
                         Integrated Training «                                                 Advanced Education                    Labour
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
                         Aboriginal Training to Employment                                                                           Labour

                         First Nations Training to Employment                                                                        Labour

                         Self-Employment                                                                                             Labour

                         Transitions                                                                                                 Labour

                         Workplace Training                                                                                          Labour
Work                     Adult Basic Education (Grades 7-9) «                                  Advanced Education
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
Foundations                                                                                    Advanced Education
                         Academic Upgrading (Grades 10-12) «                                   Foundational Learning Supports
                         General Education Development «                                       Advanced Education
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
                         Life Skills / Personal Management «                                   Advanced Education
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
                         Technical Entrance Preparation «                                      Advanced Education
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
                         University / College Entrance Preparation «                           Advanced Education
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
                         Basic Skills – Literacy & Numeracy (Grades 1-6) «                     Advanced Education                    Labour
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
                         English as a Second Language «                                        Advanced Education                    Labour
                                                                                               Foundational Learning Supports
                         Enhanced Language Training                                                                                  Labour

   «    For Advanced Education clients, the Work Outcomes Reporting Project surveys all learners who have participated in foundational learning programs.

---PDF PAGE 142---
advancededucation.alberta.ca/ministry/reports/annualreports/