
---PDF PAGE 1---
Enterprise and
Advanced Education









                      Annual Report
                      2012-2013

---PDF PAGE 2---
                                 Enterprise and Advanced Education                            EAE Annual Report 2012-2013














For more information, contact:

Alberta Enterprise and Advanced Education
Communications
    mail    5   Floor, Phipps-McKinnon Buildingth
            10020 101A Ave
            Edmonton, Alberta  T5J 3G2

Internet    eae.alberta.ca/annualreports

  phone     780-422-5400 (Edmonton)
toll free   310-0000 (other Alberta locations)
     fax    780-422-1263

            Deaf callers with TTY equipment
              phone     780-427-9999 (Edmonton)
            toll free   1-800-232-7215 (other Alberta locations)

Copyright © 2013, the Crown in Right of the Province of Alberta,
as represented by the Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education.
Permission is given by the copyright owner for any person to reproduce
this document for educational purposes and on a non-profit basis.

ISBN   978-1-4601-1171-0
ISSN   2291-7489

---PDF PAGE 3---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                   Enterprise and Advanced Education                                      i


                   Enterprise and Advanced Education
                   Annual Report 2012-2013
                   Preface                                                                                          1
                   Minister’s Accountability Statement                                                              1
                   Message from the Minister                                                                        2
                   Management’s Responsibility for Reporting                                                        3
                   Results Analysis                                                                                 5
                   Financial Information
                     Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                23
                     Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                              47
                     Access to the Future Fund                                                                    69
                     Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                               75
                     Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                      85
                   Other Information                                                                              93

---PDF PAGE 4---
ii                                                       Enterprise and Advanced Education                            EAE Annual Report 2012-2013















                                           eae.alberta.ca/annualreports

---PDF PAGE 5---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                       Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                    1

                            Preface

                            The Public Accounts of Alberta are prepared in accordance with the Financial Administration Act and the
                            Government Accountability Act.  The Public Accounts consist of the annual report of the Government of Alberta and
                            the annual reports of each of the 18 ministries.
                            The annual report of the Government of Alberta contains ministers’ accountability statements, the consolidated
                            financial statements of the province and Measuring Up report, which compares actual performance results to
                            desired results set out in the government’s strategic plan.
                            On May 8, 2012, the Government announced new ministry structures.  The 2012-13 Ministry annual reports and
                            financial statements have been prepared based on the new Ministry structure.
                            The new Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education is comprised of:

                               the former Ministry Advanced Education and Technology (responsible for the advanced learning system –
                                including apprenticeships, student aid, and community learning - research and innovation, and technology
                                commercialization),

                               the former Enterprise (responsible for economic development), and

                               the former components of the Ministry of Human Services responsible for workforce development, including
                                immigration and labour market forecasting.
                            This annual report of the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education contains the Minister’s accountability
                            statement, the audited consolidated financial statements of the Ministry and a comparison of actual
                            performance results to desired results set out in the Ministry business plan.  This Ministry annual report also
                            includes:

                               the financial statements of entities making up the Ministry including the Department of Enterprise and
                                Advanced Education, regulated funds, provincial agencies, and Crown-controlled corporations for which
                                the Minister is responsible;
                               other financial information as required by the Financial Administration Act and Government Accountability
                                Act, either as separate reports or as a part of the financial statements, to the extent that the Ministry has
                                anything to report.

                            Minister’s Accountability Statement

                            The Ministry’s annual report for the year ended March 31, 2013 was prepared under my direction in accordance
                            with the Government Accountability Act and the Government’s accounting policies.  All of the Government’s policy
                            decisions as at June 12, 2013 with material economic or fiscal implications of which I am aware have been
                            considered in the preparation of this report.




                            original signed by
                            Thomas A. Lukaszuk
                            Deputy Premier and Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education

---PDF PAGE 6---
2                                                                   Enterprise and Advanced Education                                        EAE Annual Report 2012-2013

                             Message from the Minister

                             Education and entrepreneurship are cornerstones of our province’s dynamic economy – an economy that Albertans
                             continue to build through their knowledge, adaptability, and entrepreneurial spirit.  During the past year, the
                             Ministry played an important role in securing Alberta’s economic future by working to optimize our human
                             potential, broaden our economic base, and build a more innovative province.
                             We continued our work to ensure the advanced learning system is sustainable, in part, by ensuring post-secondary
                             infrastructure is being well maintained.  The government is investing in families and communities including the
                             new roads, schools and health facilities our growing province needs.
                             The Ministry also made significant improvements to the Student Aid Alberta program so that more Albertans are
                             now eligible to apply for financial support.  We began by making changes to loan eligibility criteria and the
                             interest-free period, increasing access for part-time students, and providing incentives for completion.  The Ministry
                             also continued to reward excellence and inspire student achievement by awarding nearly $74 million in
                             scholarships – the highest amount of scholarship funding per capita in Canada.
                             We continued our efforts to become a global leader in research and innovation.  For example, through the Campus
                             Alberta Innovation Program we recruited 10 new research leaders to the province in these key areas: food and
                             nutrition, neuroscience/prions, and water.  We also continued to form new commercial and research partnerships
                             with corporations and research organizations from around the globe, including Eli Lilly, Novartis Pharmaceuticals,
                             and Tekes of Finland – a funding agency for technology and innovation.
                             We led the Results-Based Budgeting review of the Government’s economic development programs to ensure
                             increased relevancy, effectiveness, and efficiency.  In this way, the Government is ensuring that we live within our
                             means, by challenging every dollar spent and making sure every program continues to deliver real results for
                             people.  The Ministry is also building new markets for all our resources so that we get the fairest price and we
                             protect the jobs and prosperity Albertans depend on.
                             To ensure Alberta has a skilled workforce to meet present and future demands, we created new tools for labour
                             market analysis and helped to ensure immigration policy continues to support Alberta’s growing economy.
                             Specifically, the Ministry worked with industry partners to create the Oil Sands Information Labour Market Analysis
                             Projection tool, or OILMAP, a projection model that helps government and industry identify oil sands labour
                             imbalances and their policy implications.  As host to Canada’s Provincial/Territorial Secretariat for Immigration, the
                             Ministry was instrumental in the federal adoption of a new immigration model.  The Expression of Interest model
                             will speed application processing, respond better to labour needs, and improve outcomes for skilled immigrants.
                             Alberta is the economic engine of Canada, and Enterprise and Advanced Education is playing a key role in driving
                             Alberta’s prosperity.  In the coming year, the Ministry remains committed to working together with our
                             stakeholders, partners, and agencies to build our province’s economic and social success.




                             original signed by
                             Thomas A. Lukaszuk
                             Deputy Premier and Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education

---PDF PAGE 7---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                         Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                     3

                             Management’s Responsibility for Reporting

                             The Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education includes:
                                the Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education,
                               the Access to the Future Fund,
                               the Alberta Enterprise Corporation,
                               Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions,
                               Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions,
                               Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions,
                               Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures, and
                               Public Post-Secondary Institutions.
                             The executives of the individual entities within the Ministry have the primary responsibility and accountability for
                             the respective entities.  Collectively, the executives ensure the Ministry complies with all relevant legislation,
                             regulations and policies.
                             Ministry business plans, annual reports, performance results and the supporting management information are
                             integral to the Government’s fiscal and strategic plan, annual report, quarterly reports and other financial and
                             performance reporting.
                             Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the consolidated financial statements and performance results for
                             the Ministry rests with the Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education.  Under the direction of the Minister, I
                             oversee the preparation of the Ministry’s annual report, including consolidated financial statements and
                             performance results.  The consolidated financial statements and the performance results, of necessity, include
                             amounts that are based on estimates and judgments.  The consolidated financial statements are prepared in
                             accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.  The performance measures are prepared in
                             accordance with the following criteria:
                               Reliability – information agrees with underlying data and the sources used to prepare it.
                               Understandability and Comparability – current results are presented clearly in accordance with the stated
                                 methodology and are comparable with previous results.
                               Completeness – performance measures and targets match those included in Budget 2012.
                             As Deputy Minister, in addition to program responsibilities, I am responsible for the Ministry’s financial
                             administration and reporting functions.  The Ministry maintains systems of financial management and internal
                             control which give consideration to costs, benefits and risks that are designed to:
                               provide reasonable assurance that transactions are properly authorized, executed in accordance with prescribed
                                 legislation and regulations, and properly recorded so as to maintain accountability of public money;
                               provide information to manage and report on performance;
                               safeguard the assets and properties of the Province under Ministry administration;
                               provide Executive Council, the President of Treasury Board and Minister of Finance and the Minister of Enterprise
                                 and Advanced Education information needed to fulfill their responsibilities; and
                               facilitate preparation of Ministry business plans and annual reports required under the Government
                                 Accountability Act.
                             In fulfilling my responsibilities for the Ministry, I have relied, as necessary, on the executive of the individual entities
                             within the Ministry.




                             original signed by
                             David Morhart
                             Deputy Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education
                             June 12, 2013

---PDF PAGE 8---
4                                                       Enterprise and Advanced Education                            EAE Annual Report 2012-2013















                                           eae.alberta.ca/annualreports

---PDF PAGE 9---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                    Results Analysis                                                           5


                       Results Analysis
                       Ministry Overview
                       Review Engagement Report
                       Discussion and Analysis of Results
                       Financial Highlights

---PDF PAGE 10---
6                                                                            Results Analysis                                               EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                            Ministry Overview

                            Enterprise and Advanced Education provides strategic leadership in advanced learning, workforce development,
                            research, innovation, commercialization, and economic development.  The Ministry aims to broaden Alberta’s
                            economic base and optimize Alberta’s human potential to create an innovative and competitive province.
                            Enterprise and Advanced Education leads the development of a resilient economy and a thriving society by:
                               Building a globally recognized, quality advanced learning system.  Enterprise and Advanced Education funds
                                 the advanced learning system and provides program quality assurance.  The Ministry facilitates collaboration
                                 across the system, working with partners to meet the needs of learners, society, and the economy.

                               Fostering excellence in research, innovation, and commercialization.  Enterprise and Advanced Education
                                 works collaboratively with partners and stakeholders to coordinate, fund, and promote research and innovation
                                 in the key areas of bio-industry, energy and environment, health, and information and communications
                                 technology.  The Ministry also supports emerging-technology companies, investment in value-added industries,
                                 and international collaborations that support innovation.
                               Creating a learner-centred, affordable and accessible advanced learning system.  Enterprise and Advanced
                                 Education ensures access to a full range of affordable and quality advanced learning opportunities for
                                 Albertans.  The Ministry supports flexible learner pathways; provides student financial aid; rewards excellence
                                 through scholarships; and works with public post-secondary institutions, private providers, community adult
                                 learning organizations, and industry to support lifelong learning.

                               Ensuring that Alberta has a stronger and more competitive economy.  Enterprise and Advanced Education
                                 develops provincial and regional economic development policies, initiatives, and tools to make Alberta an
                                 attractive place to invest and do business.  In partnership with key stakeholders, the Ministry strengthens the
                                 provincial economy by facilitating entrepreneurship and productivity growth, and by promoting value-added
                                 and supply chain development.

                               Developing a skilled labour force that contributes to economic prosperity.  Enterprise and Advanced
                                 Education provides leadership to develop a skilled and productive workforce that will meet the changing needs
                                 of Alberta’s economy.  The Ministry collaborates with industry and employers to plan for labour challenges and
                                 address short-term labour needs.  The Ministry also works to increase labour force participation among
                                 underrepresented groups, attract work-ready immigrants to the province, and improve recognition of foreign
                                 qualifications.

---PDF PAGE 11---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                                Results Analysis                                                                                            7

                                  The Ministry collaborates with learning providers, advisory boards, councils and authorities, and innovation
                                  support agencies to fulfill its mandate.
                                  Entities included in Ministry Financial Statements

                                  Ministry         Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education
                                                   Funds and Corporations                                              Access to the Future Fund
                                                                                                                       Alberta Enterprise Corporation
                                                                                                                       Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions
                                                                                                                       Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions
                                                                                                                       Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions
                                                                                                                       Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures
                                                   Public Post-Secondary             Comprehensive Academic            University of Alberta
                                                   Institutions                      and Research Institutions         University of Calgary

                                                                                                                       University of Lethbridge
                                                                                                                       Athabasca University
                                                                                     Baccalaureate and Applied         Grant MacEwan University
                                                                                     Studies Institutions              Mount Royal University

                                                                                     Polytechnical Institutions        Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
                                                                                                                       Southern Alberta Institute of Technology
                                                                                     Comprehensive Community           Bow Valley College
                                                                                     Institutions                      Grande Prairie Regional College

                                                                                                                       Keyano College
                                                                                                                       Lakeland College
                                                                                                                       Lethbridge College
                                                                                                                       Medicine Hat College
                                                                                                                       NorQuest College
                                                                                                                       Northern Lakes College
                                                                                                                       Olds College
                                                                                                                       Portage College
                                                                                                                       Red Deer College
                                                                                     Specialized Arts and Culture      Alberta College of Art + Design
                                                                                     Institutions                      The Banff Centre

                                  For more information on the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education, see eae.alberta.ca.
                                  Websites for these entities are listed on page 100.
                                  Advisory Boards, Councils and Authorities

                                  Access Advisory Council
                                  Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training Board
                                  Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer
                                  Alberta Research and Innovation Authority
                                  Campus Alberta Quality Council
                                  Students Finance Board
                                  Alberta Economic Development Authority
                                  Northern Alberta Development Council

                                  Websites for these entities are listed on page 100.

---PDF PAGE 12---
8                                                                             Results Analysis                                                EAE Annual Report 2012-2013








                            Review Engagement Report


                           To the Members of the Legislative Assembly


                           I have reviewed the performance measures identified as reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General in the Ministry
                           of Enterprise and Advanced Education’s Annual Report 2012-2013.  The reviewed performance measures are the
                           responsibility of the ministry and are prepared based on the following criteria:
                             Reliability – The information used in applying performance measure methodologies agrees with underlying
                               source data for the current and prior years’ results.
                             Understandability – The performance measure methodologies and results are presented clearly.
                             Comparability – The methodologies for performance measure preparation are applied consistently for the current
                               and prior years’ results.
                             Completeness – The goals, performance measures and related targets match those included in the ministry’s
                               budget 2012.
                           My review was made in accordance with Canadian generally accepted standards for review engagements and,
                           accordingly, consisted primarily of enquiry, analytical procedures and discussion related to information supplied to
                           me by the ministry.
                           A review does not constitute an audit and, consequently, I do not express an audit opinion on the performance
                           measures.  Further, my review was not designed to assess the relevance and sufficiency of the reviewed performance
                           measures in demonstrating ministry progress towards the related goals.
                           Based on my review, nothing has come to my attention that causes me to believe that the performance measures
                           identified as reviewed by Office of the Auditor General in the ministry’s annual report 2012-2013 are not, in all
                           material respects, presented in accordance with the criteria of reliability, understandability, comparability and
                           completeness as described above.




                           original signed by
                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           May 24, 2013
                           Edmonton, Alberta


                           Performance measures reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General are noted with an asterisk (*) on the Performance Measures Summary Table
                           for Goals 1, 2 and 3.

---PDF PAGE 13---
    EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                        Results Analysis                                                                                 9
    Discussion and Analysis of Results


      Goal 1       A globally recognized, quality advanced learning system meets the needs of Alberta

    Performance Measures                                                                                            Prior Years’ Results                Current       Target    Endnotes
*   Satisfaction of recent post-secondary graduates with the overall quality of their                       n/a1        91%          n/a1        n/a2       92%        90%+     A   B
    educational experience indicates the system’s ability to help students achieve desired                              2010                                 2012
    outcomes.
    Satisfaction of recent apprenticeship graduates with:                     on-the-job training          92%           n/a3       91%          n/a3       95%        90%+     B   C
    indicates the quality of the apprenticeship training system and its                                    2009                     2011                     2013
    ability to meet learner needs in terms of relevant content, excellent
    instruction, cutting-edge equipment, and current trade practices.         technical training           94%           n/a3       93%          n/a3       96%        90%+
                                                                                                           2009                     2011                     2013

    International visa students registered at Alberta post-secondary institutions                         9,804      11,840      12,614       13,143      14,832       12,950   D   E
    indicates the province’s success in attracting international students.                              2007-08      2008-09     2009-10     2010-11      2011-12

    1  The Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey is conducted every other year.                                                                       Target exceeded
    2  The 2012 Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey was conducted on the usual biennial schedule, but that schedule could not                       Target met
       accommodate the June 2012 publication of the 2011-12 Annual Report.  New results became available in September 2012 for
       publication in the 2012-13 Annual Report.                                                                                                        Target not met
    3  The Survey of Apprenticeship Graduates is conducted every other year.

*   Indicates Performance Measures that have been reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General
    The performance measure indicated with an asterisk was selected for review by Ministry management based on the following criteria
    established by government: enduring measures that best represent the goal, measures for which new data is available, and measures that
    have well established methodology.

    Alberta’s advanced learning system is recognized as a pillar of our                           Beyond using these tools for better alignment, advanced learning
    province’s well being.  A sustainable, interconnected, and                                    partners took time to explore the next stage in evolution for
    responsive learning system is a key mechanism to optimize                                     Campus Alberta.  The Ministry, post-secondary institutions and
    Alberta’s human potential and drive the province’s economic                                   stakeholders met this year to discuss transformational change in
    success.  The Ministry supports and guides this system by funding                             advanced learning system outcomes, strategic initiatives, and
    its operations and infrastructure, facilitating system-wide                                   support mechanisms.  Enterprise and Advanced Education is
    alignment, supporting quality assurance, and connecting with                                  working with institutions to develop letters of expectation
    advanced learning partners globally.                                                          articulating how we will reach for that change.
    Providing Funding                                                                             Responding to Alberta’s Needs
    To ensure quality advanced learning opportunities are available                               The Ministry’s efforts to coordinate planning and help the
    across Alberta, Enterprise and Advanced Education provided nearly                             advanced learning system evolve reflect an environment that is
    $2.3 billion in operating funding for post-secondary institutions in                          complex.  Stakeholder needs are diverse: while individuals pursue
    2012-13.  Additionally, the Ministry provided $76 million in                                  essential skills or advanced research, employers call for skilled
    infrastructure funding to support the maintenance of                                          workers, and the province seeks to broaden its economic base.  In
    post-secondary facilities.  This funding ensures a solid foundation                           this context, coordination does not mean uniformity; the system
    for Alberta’s advanced learning providers.                                                    must remain sensitive, providing appropriate support for a range
    Supporting Planning and System Evolution                                                      of needs.  Two of these concern trades and research capacity.
    Alberta’s publicly funded post-secondary institutions and the                                 Trades
    Government of Alberta have worked together for many years to                                  The number of apprentices registered in Alberta varies from year to
    identify and pursue common goals in a changing environment.                                   year, reflecting changes in economic activity.  Total registrations
    Alberta’s advanced learning system has evolved significantly since                            increased from approximately 57,000 in 2011 to over 61,000 in
    the introduction of the Campus Alberta concept in 2001, and we                                2012, suggesting an increased industry demand for skilled
    continue to face new opportunities and challenges in serving                                  tradespeople in that period.  At the same time, it is anticipated that
    Alberta’s social and economic needs in the twenty-first century.                              industry will encounter challenges in maintaining a sufficient and
    There are a number of mechanisms that support strategic planning                              sustainable skilled trades workforce in Alberta over the long term.
    in a fluid environment.  These include the Campus Alberta                                     The Ministry continues to work with the Apprenticeship and
    Planning Resource and Comprehensive Institutional Plans, tools                                Industry Training Board and industry partners to ensure Alberta
    that help institutions align their efforts for greater system-wide                            has the skilled tradespeople it needs.
    benefit.  The Campus Alberta Planning Resource offers institutions
    a common source for data on demographics, enrolment, and
    economic factors that affect post-secondary demand and capacity,
    while comprehensive institutional plans help to integrate
    institutional and system-wide priorities.

---PDF PAGE 14---
10                                                                            Results Analysis                                                EAE Annual Report 2012-2013

Research Capacity                                                                        Enterprise and Advanced Education is committed to supporting
In its second year of operation, the Campus Alberta Innovation                           and developing an advanced learning system that is increasingly
Program continued to attract leading-edge faculty and personnel                          coordinated, responsive, globally connected, and respected for its
to new research chairs at Alberta’s comprehensive academic and                           quality.  The Ministry’s work in 2012-13 is in line with that
research institutions in priority areas.  In 2012-13, ten recruitments                   commitment: coordinating planning and supporting system
were completed in the fields of energy and environment, food and                         evolution; responding to Alberta’s labour and innovation needs;
nutrition, neuroscience/prions, and water research.  The research                        and forming international relationships for the benefit of Alberta’s
done in these areas supports the diversification and                                     post-secondary institutions and students.
competitiveness of Alberta’s economy.
Ensuring Quality
The Ministry and its partners also have a key role in quality
assurance in the advanced learning system, and there are many
mechanisms designed to achieve this goal including legislation,
the Campus Alberta Quality Council, and the Apprenticeship and
Industry Training Board.  The Ministry works to assess learner
satisfaction with the quality of publicly funded post-secondary
education by conducting two extensive surveys biennially: the
Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey (GOS) (Endnote A), which
captures responses from graduates two years after completing a
post-secondary credential, including apprenticeship programs;
and the Survey of Apprenticeship Graduates (SAG) (Endnote C),
which captures responses specifically from recent apprenticeship
graduates.
Results from the GOS have consistently shown a very high
satisfaction of post-secondary graduates with the overall quality of
their educational experience: 90% or more of respondents for the
last four survey cycles have indicated they were satisfied or very
satisfied.  Similarly, results from the SAG for the same period show
apprentice satisfaction with training at 91% or higher.  These
results suggest that post-secondary graduates are achieving their
desired learning outcomes and that Alberta’s advanced learning
system continues to offer quality programming to Albertans.
Connecting Globally
This quality is likewise recognized by learners internationally.  The
number of international visa students registered at Alberta
post-secondary institutions has continued to rise since 2004-05,
reaching a high of 14,832 in 2011-12 (Endnote D).  Factors that
influence the number of international visa students learning in
Alberta include the labour (and therefore educational) needs of
foreign markets, programs that allow eligible students to work
while they study, and government and institution outreach in
international markets (particularly China, India, and Vietnam).
The Ministry’s outreach efforts in 2012-13 included seven separate
missions focused on raising international awareness of Alberta’s
advanced learning system and discussing education partnerships
with foreign governments.  These included missions to India,
Vietnam, Mexico, and the United States.
Alberta-Languages Canada Agreement
One unprecedented achievement in 2012-13 was the signing of an
agreement between the Government of Alberta and Languages
Canada, a national association devoted to promoting quality,
accredited English and French language training in Canada.  Now,
Alberta-based institutions who are association members may use
the national Imagine Canada brand to promote language
programs worldwide.  This agreement is the first of its kind, and
Languages Canada will be using it as a model to develop similar
agreements with other provinces.

---PDF PAGE 15---
    EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                       Results Analysis                                                                                11


      Goal 2       Excellence in research, innovation and commercialization drives Alberta’s future success

    Performance Measures                                                                                           Prior Years’ Results                Current      Target     Endnotes

*   Total sponsored research revenue attracted by Alberta universities ($M) indicates the                760.9       791.2        818.5       850.4       759.6         840    F
    research capability, capacity and competitiveness of Alberta’s universities (comprehensive         2007-08      2008-09     2009-10     2010-11     2011-12
     academic and research institutions), and helps the Ministry understand the province’s progress
    in research and innovation.

    Percentage of graduate students studying in priority areas is an indicator of Alberta’s               33%          33%         34%         34%         33%          34%    G   E
    research and innovation capacity in areas of focus.                                                 2007-08     2008-09     2009-10     2010-11     2011-12

    Percentage of Canadian venture capital invested in Alberta helps indicate the capacity                5.3%        7.0%        6.7%        3.8%         1.6%        6.0%    H
    and capability available to support innovation and knowledge industry growth.                         2008         2009        2010        2011        2012

*   Indicates Performance Measures that have been reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General                                                        Target exceeded
    The performance measure indicated with an asterisk was selected for review by Ministry management based on the following criteria                  Target met
    established by government: enduring measures that best represent the goal, measures for which new data is available, and measures that
    have well established methodology.                                                                                                                 Target not met

    Alberta can no longer be thought of only as oil country or cattle                            Developing Innovation Capacity
    country.  While these industries remain a strong foundation for our                          Research Capacity Program
    provincial economy, Alberta has begun to leverage those strengths                            A healthy research and innovation ecosystem needs the right
    to diversify and develop capacity in research, innovation, and
    technology.  Enterprise and Advanced Education brings together                               support to grow.  Through the Research Capacity Program,
    leadership in pure and applied research, entrepreneurship, and                               Enterprise and Advanced Education provides funding for the
    technology innovation to support and guide these aspects of the                              equipment and infrastructure at post-secondary institutions that
    province’s economic evolution.                                                               researchers need to advance their work.  In 2012-13, this
    Aligning the System                                                                          competition-based grant program approved $27.3 million for 44
                                                                                                 equipment proposals and $2.9 million for four College Industry
    Alberta Innovates Connector Service                                                          Innovation proposals.  These awards successfully leveraged federal
    One key coordinating mechanism for Alberta’s research and                                    Canadian Foundation for Innovation funding and other sources
    innovation system is the Alberta Innovates Connector Service.  The                           including industry, non-profit, other government funding, and
    Connector is a personalized service that connects clients to                                 institutional contributions.  Through coordinated planning,
    essential resources and organizations that can help them advance                             prioritized research investments, and the sustainable and effective
    their research, commercialize their product, or build their business.                        use of resources, the Research Capacity Program supports research
    In 2012-13, nearly 800 clients reached out through the Connector,                            and technology excellence, builds capacity for innovation,
    bringing the total number of client inquiries to almost 2,700 since                          supports the attraction and retention of researchers, and promotes
    the service’s inception in January 2010.  Alberta’s innovators and                           initiatives of strategic benefit to Alberta.
    entrepreneurs are making good use of this hub to help their                                  Sponsored Research Revenue
    projects thrive.                                                                             One measure of the province’s post-secondary research capacity
    Building on Strengths                                                                        and excellence is the sponsored research revenue attracted by
    As Enterprise and Advanced Education works to invigorate the                                 Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
    innovation climate for new research, technology, and products,                               (CARIs) (Endnote F).  Success in acquiring and increasing sponsored
    innovation in Alberta’s traditional economic engine continues to                             research revenue is accomplished through highly competitive,
    thrive.  This year, on the strength of a Memorandum of                                       excellence-driven research activities.  Sponsored research attracted
    Understanding with Natural Resources Canada signed in                                        by the province’s CARIs has risen 37% over the last eight years from
    February 2012, Enterprise and Advanced Education initiated the                               nearly $623 million in 2003-04 to just over $850 million in 2010-11,
    Alberta-Canada Collaboratory in Cleaner Oil Sands Development.                               suggesting an overall improvement in research capability, capacity,
    Building on a long history of collaboration in oil sands research and                        and competitiveness of these institutions.  However, in 2011-12,
    development, this partnership will focus on facing the challenges                            the result for this measure fell to just under $760 million, missing
    involved in responsible and sustainable oil sands development.  It                           the Ministry’s target of $840 million.  The primary reasons for this
    will bring together and draw upon the best expertise within the                              decrease are the successful completion of capital infrastructure
    innovation system, help maintain the world-renowned status of                                initiatives, the variability of industry funding, and the competitive
    Alberta’s and Canada’s energy research and innovation capacity,                              cycles of federal programs.
    and enhance the ability for industry to achieve desired outcomes.

---PDF PAGE 16---
12                                                                             Results Analysis                                                 EAE Annual Report 2012-2013

Graduate Students in Priority Areas                                                       Europe
As institutions draw research funding, the better they are able to                        Enterprise and Advanced Education also signed a Memorandum of
attract and retain world-class researchers.  These researchers in                         Understanding with Tekes of Finland (a funding agency for
turn, attract top graduate students, further strengthening the                            technology and innovation) for a technology partnering program
workforce supporting Alberta’s innovation capacity.  The                                  to facilitate research and development collaborations between
percentage of Alberta’s graduate students studying in priority                            private and public sector entities in both countries.  As a result, the
areas (Endnote G) remained stable this year at 33%.  For the purposes                     Alberta-Finland Collaboration Program for Product Development
of this measure, priority areas are fields identified by the                              and Commercialization was launched in October 2012.
Government of Alberta as offering the province a competitive edge                         The Ministry also launched the Alberta-Germany Partnership
in innovation and commercialization: energy, life sciences,                               Program in collaboration with the Canadian Center for Innovation
nano-technology, and information and communications                                       and Research to develop collaborative projects between
technology.  Although missing the Ministry’s target of 34%, this                          companies in Alberta and Germany.  In February 2013, three
result is in line with the measure’s very flat trend which has                            projects were approved for funding.
fluctuated between 33% and 34% for the last eight years.  This                            Mexico
stable distribution suggests that a consistent proportion of
students remain positive about the opportunities these fields offer                       These European agreements follow a partnering program with
for employment, entrepreneurship, or further research.                                    Jalisco, Mexico established in 2011-12.  This year, five projects were
Venture Capital Investment                                                                approved for funding under the Alberta-Jalisco Research,
Another means of gauging the innovation climate is the amount of                          Development and Commercialization Program, bringing the total
venture capital funding available to support early-stage,                                 of approved projects to 13 since the program’s inception.
high-potential, high-risk companies.  Alberta’s relative share of                         Programs such as these with Finland, Germany, and Mexico enable
Canadian venture capital investment is one way to portray the                             Alberta’s small- to medium-sized technology companies to
state of that climate (Endnote H).  In 2012, early-stage investment in                    co-develop and commercialize technologies in an international
Alberta saw a significant decline to 1.6% of the Canadian total.  In                      context, facilitating market access.
actual dollars, early-stage investment dropped approximately                              They are the result, in part, of the Ministry’s outreach efforts in
$32 million to a record low of over $17 million.  This result can                         foreign jurisdictions.  This year, the Ministry sent missions to Brazil,
primarily be explained by a significant decrease in the number of                         India, Finland, Germany, China, Mexico, and the United States, and
venture capital investments made in the life sciences and energy                          facilitated meetings for incoming delegations from Korea, China,
and environment technology sectors.  From the Canadian                                    India, Germany, Israel, Finland, Mexico, and the United States.
perspective, overall early-stage investment declined by $109                              Alberta is emerging as a global citizen in the information age.  As a
million, but the major markets – Ontario, Quebec, and British                             leader, facilitator, and collaborator, Enterprise and Advanced
Columbia – retained the lion’s share of the total.                                        Education is helping to propel that shift: aligning systems,
Collaborating with International Partners                                                 leveraging strengths, fostering capacity, and connecting partners
Alberta’s research and commercialization capacity is successfully                         to create new opportunities for innovation and commercialization.
attracting partners in innovation.  This year saw the development
of significant new relationships with corporate and research
organizations around the globe.
Eli Lilly
In 2012-13, the Ministry together with Alberta Innovates – Health
Solutions formed a partnership with Eli Lilly and Company to
launch the Alberta/Lilly Translational Research Fund supporting
health research at Alberta’s publicly funded post-secondary
institutions.  This collaboration links Alberta’s innovation engine to
Lilly’s commercial expertise, and is the first stage in a long-term
relationship focused on innovative health solutions.
Novartis
Enterprise and Advanced Education signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Canada that
formalized collaboration to advance innovative health research.
This MOU establishes a long-term relationship to develop, fund,
manage, and commercialize innovations in health that support the
interests and needs of Novartis and Albertans.

---PDF PAGE 17---
    EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                        Results Analysis                                                                                 13


       Goal 3       A learner-centered, affordable advanced learning system accessible to Albertans

    Performance Measures                                                                                             Prior Years’ Results                Current      Target     Endnotes

*   Proportion of Albertans aged 18-34 participating in post-secondary education helps                      16%         17%         18%          17%         17%          18%    I
    indicate Alberta’s social and economic well-being since post-secondary participation correlates         2008        2009        2010         2011        2012
    to employment and earning power.

   Proportion of Albertans aged 25-64 who have completed post-secondary education                          60%         61%         62%          61%         62%          62%    J
    indicates Alberta’s provision of a highly skilled workforce and speaks to the province’s social         2008        2009        2010         2011        2012
    and economic well-being.
    Proportion of recent graduates who agree that the program they graduated from was                        n/a1       86%           n/a1        n/a2       86%          87%    A  B
    worth the financial cost indicates the ability of the advanced learning system to help                              2010                                 2012
    students achieve desired outcomes.  Additionally, the measure offers insight into graduates’
    perceptions of quality and cost at Alberta’s post-secondary institutions.

    1  The Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey is conducted every other year.                                                                       Target exceeded
    2  The 2012 Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey was conducted on the usual biennial schedule, but that schedule could not                       Target met
       accommodate the June 2012 publication of the 2011-12 Annual Report.  New results became available in September 2012 for
       publication in the 2012-13 Annual Report.                                                                                                        Target not met

*   Indicates Performance Measures that have been reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General
    The performance measure indicated with an asterisk was selected for review by Ministry management based on the following criteria
    established by government: enduring measures that best represent the goal, measures for which new data is available, and measures that
    have well established methodology.
   Indicates Performance Measures that have been reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General as part of Measuring Up

    Alberta’s people are ultimately the drivers of our province’s success.                        Underrepresented Learners
    Supporting and encouraging Albertans to reach their full potential                            The Government of Alberta and the Ministry have identified
    is a primary role of our advanced learning system, and this                                   increasing the participation of underrepresented learners as a
    outcome requires that the system be accessible, affordable, and                               priority for the province.  As important foundational steps toward
    learner-centred.  To this end, Enterprise and Advanced Education                              this goal, Enterprise and Advanced Education established a
    has made concerted efforts in 2012-13 to raise the participation of                           cross-ministry leadership team to guide government activities
    historically underrepresented learners, to enhance the flexibility of                         directed at this outcome.  Activities have included a direction to
    learner pathways into and throughout the post-secondary learning                              increase participation of these groups in letters of expectation to
    system, and to improve student funding options.                                               post-secondary institutions and an inventory of current
    Ensuring Access to Learning                                                                   Government of Alberta programs supporting underrepresented
    Participation, Completion, Satisfaction                                                       groups that will inform further policy and action.
    Access to learning opportunities can be understood through a                                  Aboriginal Learners
    variety of lenses; participation in post-secondary education is one.                          Aboriginal Albertans are one group that is underrepresented in
    Alberta’s participation rate has historically been slightly lower than                        post-secondary learning.  In 2012-13, Enterprise and Advanced
    the Canadian average, due in large part to our strong labour                                  Education provided $1.9 million to five Aboriginal colleges for
    market—drawing people into employment—and the in-migration                                    11 projects that enhance access, increase retention, and improve
    of people who already possess a post-secondary credential—                                    learning outcomes for Aboriginal students.  Notably, the number of
    decreasing the proportion of Albertans seeking post-secondary                                 Aboriginal learners in post-secondary studies has had an overall
    education (Endnote I).  In contrast to the participation rate, the                            upward trend over the last eight years, and in 2011-12 reached an
    percentage of Albertans age 25-64 who have completed                                          all-time high of approximately 10,000.
    post-secondary education (the attainment rate) has historically                               In partnership with industry and the Alberta Apprenticeship and
    been comparable to the Canadian average (Endnote J).                                          Industry Training Board, Enterprise and Advanced Education
    It is valuable to note that the number of Albertans enrolled at                               awarded Aboriginal apprentices 15 scholarships in a variety of
    publicly funded post-secondary institutions has steadily increased                            trades, and formally recognized an employer who demonstrated a
    over the past decade (2001-11), with an average annual increase of                            commitment to recruiting and training Aboriginal apprentices.  It is
    2.5%.  In 2011-12, approximately 40,000 unique learners                                       worth observing that the number of Aboriginal apprentices in
    completed a diploma, certificate, or degree program at a publicly                             Alberta has continued to rise since 2006.  In 2012, there were just
    funded institution in Alberta, an increase of 5% from the previous                            over 2,900 Aboriginal apprentices active in their trade, up from
    year.  These figures suggest that Albertans have access to the                                approximately 2,500 in 2011.
    learning opportunities they want.                                                             In 2012-13, Enterprise and Advanced Education worked with
    It is also worth noting that public satisfaction with access to                               Aboriginal communities developing resources and delivering
    educational opportunities has been high and increasing over the                               workshops to enhance career and education planning for First
    last eight years, peaking in 2012-13 at 82% (an increase of five                              Nations, Métis, and Inuit learners.  The Ministry also worked with
    percentage points over the previous year’s result) (Endnote K).                               Aboriginal communities to fund approaches to adult and family
                                                                                                  literacy programming, producing a model that will be shared
                                                                                                  province-wide.

---PDF PAGE 18---
14                                                                            Results Analysis                                                EAE Annual Report 2012-2013

Community Learning                                                                       Transfer System
To further support the engagement of underrepresented groups in                          Alberta’s model for transfer between post-secondary institutions
apprenticeship and trade-related learning opportunities,                                 demonstrates significant flexibility in the advanced learning
Enterprise and Advanced Education provided funding to                                    system.  In 2011 (the most recent data available), almost 12,500
not-for-profit organizations, including Women Building Futures                           students moved between Alberta Transfer System member
and CAREERS: The Next Generation.  The Ministry also continued to                        institutions, the highest number ever in Alberta, following a steady
support the Community Adult Learning Program, which provides                             upward trend over the last six years.  These moves by learners are
low-cost access to non-formal adult education opportunities with                         multi-directional, are not geographically isolated, and occur
a focus on opening learning pathways to underrepresented                                 between and within all six sectors of the system.  As well, of
populations.                                                                             transfer graduates who were surveyed in the 2012 Graduate
Education Awareness and Planning                                                         Outcomes Survey, 90% were satisfied or very satisfied with the
To make the best educational choices for themselves, Albertans                           transfer credit they received (Endnote A). The number of transfers
need the right information about the learning opportunities and                          and the level of satisfaction with transfer credit suggest that there
career pathways available to them.  Through the Learning Clicks                          has been real success in providing flexible learner pathways for
ambassador program, the Ministry has worked to inform Albertans                          Albertans.
about post-secondary opportunities.  In 2012-13, approximately                           Dual Credit Strategy
1,000 presentations were delivered to more than 21,000 students,                         Enterprise and Advanced Education finalized a provincial dual
education influencers, parents, and potential mature learners.  Of                       credit strategy (announced in May 2013) in collaboration with the
student attendees surveyed, 90% agreed that the program                                  Ministries of Education and Human Services to increase high
influenced them to pursue further education and training.  In the                        school learner completion rates and transition into the
2012-13 High School Student Survey, 73% of respondents felt that                         post-secondary learning system.  Such programming allows high
Learning Clicks influenced their decision to pursue further                              school students to receive both high school and post-secondary
education or training, a 10% increase over the previous year                             credits for a particular course.  This unique opportunity encourages
(Endnote L).                                                                             students to personalize their high school experience while
Focusing on the Learner                                                                  exploring post-secondary and career options.
A key feature of a learner-centred advanced learning system is                           Open Education Resources
flexibility in study pathways so that learners can move easily from                      With Campus Alberta and Canadian partners, the Ministry has
high school to post-secondary education; between certificate,                            begun exploring the potential offered by Open Education
diploma and degree programs; and between institutions.  Letters                          Resources to provide more accessible, flexible, and cost-effective
of expectation currently in development ask institutions to focus                        learning opportunities for Albertans.  Open educational resources
resources on developing seamless learner pathways.  Mechanisms                           are teaching or learning materials that may be used, re-used,
that allow this kind of movement include collaborative degrees                           re-distributed, and sometimes adapted without paying copyright
and brokered programs, transfer agreements between institutions,                         royalties or licence fees.
dual credit programming, and online learning options.                                    Ensuring Learning Is Affordable
Collaborative Degree and Brokered Programs                                               Enterprise and Advanced Education continues to work to ensure
This year, Enterprise and Advanced Education finalized and shared                        that Albertans with varying financial means have access to
with advanced learning providers guidelines for collaborative                            post-secondary education, that procedures to access funding are
delivery of undergraduate degrees and guidelines for brokered                            as straightforward as possible, and that excellence is rewarded.
programs.  A collaborative degree program allows learners to                             Student Aid Alberta
receive programming from a university or college at a local                              In 2012-13, the Ministry began implementing enhancements to
Comprehensive Community Institution.  A brokered program                                 Student Aid Alberta to better respond to learner needs and
allows a local institution to temporarily host delivery of a program                     support diverse learning pathways.  Parental contributions, RRSPs,
that would not normally be available in that region.  These                              savings, and part-time earnings have been eliminated from loan
guidelines were developed in consultation with the Campus                                eligibility criteria and replaced with a flat-rate contribution of
Alberta Quality Council and Comprehensive Community                                      $1,500.  Interest charges have been eliminated during the
Institutions to ensure consistency in program delivery and clarity                       six-month grace period before repayment and for students who
about roles and responsibilities.                                                        drop to part-time studies.  Access has been enhanced to the

                                                                                         Alberta Part Time Grant, and an Alberta Completion Incentive
                                                                                         Grant has been introduced for full-time student aid recipients in
                                                                                         the last semester of their programs.  These changes mean that
                                                                                         more Albertans are now eligible to apply for financial learning
                                                                                         supports.

---PDF PAGE 19---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                   Results Analysis                                                                            15

Beyond these improvements to the program itself, student aid
recipients now receive higher quality and more streamlined
delivery of services and supports through a renewed website and a
new service centre.  The service centre is providing the quick
response times and longer hours of service needed to support an
increasing number of student aid recipients.  The total number of
students receiving financial support through Student Aid Alberta
has gradually but steadily increased over the last five years from
almost 38,000 in 2008-09 to over 58,000 in 2012-13.
Learner Funding Alignment
Another process improvement that made progress in 2012-13 is
the Learner Funding Alignment strategy, ensuring that
post-secondary students receive equitable access to appropriate
funding supports; and that gaps, duplications, and overlaps are
reduced.  Over the past five years, Enterprise and Advanced
Education and the Ministry of Human Services have worked
together on this project to better align policy, services, and
resources to improve learner funding programs delivered by both
ministries.  This collaboration aims to transfer funding
responsibility for one-year occupational training programs from
Human Services to Enterprise and Advanced Education in 2014-15.
Rewarding Excellence
Enterprise and Advanced Education also provides financial support
to learners by rewarding excellence and encouraging completion.
In 2012-13, nearly $74 million in scholarships (the highest amount
of scholarship funding per capita in Canada) was awarded to
38,500 Alberta students, including $1,000 awarded to each of 312
students in the Registered Apprenticeship Program and Career and
Technology Studies apprenticeship pathways.
Value for Money
Enterprise and Advanced Education funds approximately 63% of
the cost of post-secondary education in Alberta.  About 10% is
supplied by the institutions through a variety of sources and
approximately 27% of the total cost is borne by students through
tuition and fees.  It is notable that the proportion of recent
graduates who agree the program they graduated from was worth
the financial cost has remained extremely high, ranging from 83%
in survey year 2006 to 86% in survey years 2010 and 2012
(Endnote A).
These initiatives to reach underrepresented learners, to enable
flexible learner pathways, and to remove financial and
administrative barriers to advanced learning demonstrate the
Ministry’s commitment to lifelong learning for Albertans.  As
citizens have opportunities to fulfill their potential through
advanced learning, they become the engine for Alberta’s social and
economic evolution.

---PDF PAGE 20---
16                                                                              Results Analysis                                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


  Goal 4       Alberta has a stronger and more competitive economy

Performance Measures                                                                                         Prior Years’ Results                Current      Target1   Endnotes

Manufacturing and Business Service Industry Gross Domestic Product (GDP) helps                 (2007 dollars)(2007 dollars)(2007 dollars)(2007 dollars)(2007 dollars)(2002 dollars)M
indicate economic growth and diversification.
   Value of Real GDP of Manufacturing and Services1                                               $69.2B      $65.3B      $66.9B      $70.8B      $73.8B       $57.7B

   Percentage Change from Previous Year                                                           +1.0%        -5.8%      +2.6%       +5.7%       +4.3%       +3.0%
      Manufacturing GDP                                                                           $18.2B      $15.4B      $16.6B      $18.4B      $19.4B       $14.8B
      Business Services GDP                                                                       $51.1B      $49.8B      $50.4B      $52.4B      $54.4B       $42.9B

                                                                                                     2008        2009        2010        2011        2012

1  Historical and current results are expressed in 2007 constant dollars based on new GDP estimates from Statistics Canada.  While the          Target exceeded
   target’s dollar values (published in 2002 constant dollars) are not comparable to the result, the percent change is still comparable.        Target met
   For more information on this change, see Endnote M.
                                                                                                                                                Target not met

Alberta’s economy is complex, including many players who                                   Working from Strength
together make the province strong.  Enterprise and Advanced                                Alberta has led the provinces in economic growth over the past
Education works to coordinate the efforts of those players, driving                        20 years, with an average annual GDP growth of 3.6%.  The
diversification, increasing value-added activity, and improving                            provincial economy grew by 3.9% in 2012, more than double the
market access through initiatives such as the Oil Market                                   national increase of 1.8%.  A more narrow gauge of economic
Diversification Strategy.  The Ministry’s activities in 2012-13 to                         strength is the percentage change of GDP in the priority sectors on
improve competitiveness, foster regional economies, and attract                            which the Ministry focuses (Endnote M).  Alberta’s manufacturing
investment all aim to ensure we are making progress together                               and business services industry GDP grew by 4.3% in 2012 as a
towards a more competitive Alberta.                                                        result of robust investment in the oil sands sector, a rebound in the
Catalyzing Economic Development                                                            housing sector, and the improving economy in the United States.
Results-Based Budgeting                                                                    Improving Competitiveness
To ensure the Government’s approach to economic development is                             To ensure sustained prosperity into the future, we must find ways
relevant, effective, and efficient, the Ministry led cycle one of the                      for Alberta to remain competitive and attractive as a place to do
Results-Based Budgeting review of economic development                                     business.  Enterprise and Advanced Education focused on several
programs across the Government of Alberta.  As a leader in                                 key initiatives directed at improving our province’s prosperity.
shaping Alberta’s economic future, this attention to internal                              Regulatory Benchmarking Report
assessment is important: we must examine our own practices if we
are to provide sound guidance for the province, support our                                In January 2013, a report examining ten aspects of Alberta’s
partners, and add value.                                                                   business regulation was released: the Province of Alberta Business
Real-Time IMAP                                                                             Regulatory Benchmarking Report.  The regulatory areas chosen for
                                                                                           study are those most commonly encountered by a wide range of
In 2012-13, the Ministry added significant value to an existing                            companies in Alberta and other provinces.  The study provided a
database that informs economic development activities: the                                 comprehensive assessment of the competitiveness of the
Inventory of Major Alberta Projects (IMAP).  IMAP helps firms                              regulatory environment in Alberta versus other jurisdictions,
identify potential supply opportunities and informs Albertans                              indicating areas of strength and areas for improvement.
about the status of projects valued at $5 million or greater.                              Small Business
Real-time data is now available for users to explore and customize                         Supporting entrepreneurship is a critical part of maintaining and
through an interactive online map, along with live updates via                             growing the economy, and Alberta is committed to providing
Twitter.  The first step to better collaboration is better information                     relevant information for business leaders, policy makers, and
sharing, and Enterprise and Advanced Education is leading the
way.                                                                                       entrepreneurs to ensure Alberta’s small business community
Capital Planning                                                                           continues to thrive.  This year, the Ministry released the latest
                                                                                           edition of the Alberta Small Business Profile: Small Business, Big
Besides these efforts in evaluation and information-sharing for                            Impact.  The report highlights the important role small business
economic development, the Ministry also worked to ensure that                              and entrepreneurship plays across the province, and how this role
the government’s capital plan supports economic growth across                              has evolved over the past five years.
the province.
Taking a holistic view of Alberta’s economic development activities
provides a productive way forward for the province, enabling the
Ministry to coordinate with our many partners.  We can
acknowledge and leverage interdependencies by attending to the
flow of goods and information, by improving accountability, and
by planning together.

---PDF PAGE 21---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                   Results Analysis                                                                           17

Fostering Regional Economies
This year, the Ministry continued to foster strong and collaborative
regional economies.  Enterprise and Advanced Education funds
and collaborates with Alberta’s Regional Economic Development
Alliances, which coordinate economic development activity in
their regions, improving local capacity to undertake projects
collectively; the Northern Alberta Development Council, which
develops programs and services to facilitate economic growth in
northern communities; and The Business Link and Rural Alberta
Business Centres, which provide the information, support, and
advice Alberta’s entrepreneurs need to succeed.
Enterprise and Advanced Education helped communities prepare
for investment by delivering two projects: Community Investment
Readiness and Investment Readiness Toolkit.  The Community
Investment Readiness project saw 27 communities identify gaps
and develop action plans for improved investment.  As part of the
Investment Readiness Toolkit project, 10 communities had the
opportunity to test their skill delivering a familiarization tour.  Such
a tour occurs during the site selection visit usually preceding an
investment in a community.  The toolkit and tours will help these
communities improve their handling of investor calls in the future.
Supporting and Attracting Investment
As the province’s economic development activities become more
aligned, collaborative, and productive, Alberta industry offers more
rewarding investment opportunities.  Enterprise and Advanced
Education has been working to provide support for investment
decision making and to promote Alberta globally as an investment
destination.
Guides
In 2012-13, the Ministry worked with partners to provide
information supporting investment in Alberta’s energy industry.
Two guidebooks were produced for hydrocarbon and
unconventional resource developers: Going for Green –
Environmental Innovations Guidebook and Directory, and
Unconventional Resource Guidebook and Directory.  The Ministry
also co-funded with Industry Canada the Conference Board of
Canada report, Fuel for Thought: The Economic Benefits of Oil Sands
Investment for Canada’s Regions.
Outreach
In 2012-13, the Ministry partnered with other Government of
Alberta ministries, the federal government, and industry to deliver
investment attraction and industry promotion initiatives in Mexico,
Poland, Ukraine, Scotland, Japan, and the United States.  As well,
the Ministry promoted investment opportunities in Alberta’s
resource processing and value-added industries at missions and
conferences in Canada, Europe, the Middle East, and the United
States.  This resulted in several firms visiting Alberta to investigate
the opportunities themselves.
The work of Enterprise and Advanced Education in 2012-13, along
with that of our partners, has helped position Alberta for a shift in
how we approach economic development.  We are moving toward
a more collaborative, integrated model based on accelerated data
capture and information sharing, respect for Alberta’s economic
and regional diversity, and innovation as a driver in every sector.
As we understand that our individual strengths are underpinned
by our interdependence, we are better able to reach out as a
province to the global community, and to thrive in a global
economy.

---PDF PAGE 22---
    18                                                                                 Results Analysis                                                   EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


      Goal 5        Alberta has a skilled labour force that contributes to economic prosperity

    Performance Measures                                                                                            Prior Years’ Results                 Current      Target     Endnotes

   Inter-provincial rank of Alberta’s labour force participation rate (#1 highest) helps                     #1          #1          #1           #1          #1          #1    N
    indicate Alberta’s effectiveness in addressing labour force needs relative to that of other           74.7%        74.3%       72.9%         73.7       73.4%
    provinces.                                                                                              2008        2009        2010         2011        2012
   Inter-provincial rank of Alberta’s First Nations, Métis and Inuit off-reserve labour force                #1          #31         #1           #1          #2          #1    O
    participation (#1 highest) helps indicate Alberta’s effectiveness in supporting labour force          71.5%        69.9%       70.6%         67.7       69.9%
    participation of these historically underrepresented populations relative to that of other              2008        2009        2010         2011        2012
    provinces.
    1  Alberta’s ranking in 2009 changed from 3    place to a tie with New Brunswick for 2    place when results were revised by Statistics rd                                                                                                     ndTarget exceeded
       Canada.  To remain consistent with Government of Alberta reporting of this historical result, we are reporting the original ranking with
       the revised percentage: 3    place and 69.9%.  For more information, see Endnote O.rd                                                            Target met
                                                                                                                                                        Target not met
   Indicates Performance Measures that have been reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General as part of Measuring Up
   Indicates Performance Measures that have been reviewed by the Office of the Auditor General as part of the Ministry of Human Services’
    audit plan

    Alberta’s economic success depends substantially on the strength                              Providing Labour Market Information and Analysis
    and skill of our labour force.  Enterprise and Advanced Education is                          Alberta’s labour force participation rate is only one aspect of the
    working to support and develop this labour force through                                      province’s complex and changing labour market.  Understanding
    programs and initiatives that are responsive to Alberta’s labour                              and anticipating shifts in the province’s labour needs is critical to
    needs.  These include attraction and retention efforts, recognizing                           economic success.  The Government of Alberta has some of the
    other Canadian and foreign qualifications, supporting                                         best provincial labour market information and analysis in Canada,
    underrepresented groups, and developing timely and relevant                                   now housed in Enterprise and Advanced Education as part of the
    labour market information.                                                                    Ministry’s integrated approach to economic development.
    Planning for Tomorrow’s Workforce                                                             This year, the Ministry continued to provide timely labour market
    Building and Educating Tomorrow’s Workforce                                                   information and analysis related to the performance of Alberta’s
    As part of the Building and Educating Tomorrow’s Workforce—the                                labour market, underrepresented groups, industry, and
    Government’s comprehensive labour strategy—Enterprise and                                     occupational forecasting.  Products include the Short Term
    Advanced Education continued to work with partners and                                        Employment Forecast, which provides a three-year overview of
    stakeholders to develop the workforce and workplaces driving                                  occupations expected to be in demand during that period; and the
    Alberta’s economic future.  The strategy aims to increase the supply                          Alberta Annual Labour Market Review, which reports on the 2012
    of appropriately skilled workers in the province; ensure the                                  labour market performance of Alberta, comparing it to previous
    province produces and attracts highly skilled, educated and                                   years and other provinces.
    innovative people; and encourage the development of high                                      OILMAP
    performance work environments that make the best use of                                       In 2012-13, Enterprise and Advanced Education worked closely
    innovation and technology.  One example of the strategy in action                             with the oil sands industry to create the Oil Sands Information
    is the government-supported Immigrant Access Fund, a non-profit                               Labour Market Analysis Projection (OILMAP) tool, which will be
    society founded in 2005 offering micro loans to help immigrants                               used to project workforce supply and demand for Alberta’s oil
    obtain professional registration, upgrading, or training allowing                             sands industry.  This projection model helps government and
    them to work in their field of expertise.                                                     industry identify labour imbalances and their policy implications
    Labour Force Participation                                                                    by correlating a project’s size with the number and timing of
    While the Ministry is striving to increase labour force participation                         skilled trades needed.  Currently, more than 200 energy-related
    among underrepresented groups, Alberta’s labour force                                         projects are being tracked using OILMAP.
    participation rate still remains the highest among Canadian                                   OILMAP constitutes the most comprehensive list of its kind ever
    provinces since 2007.  Alberta’s rate was 73.4% in 2012, while the                            developed in Alberta, and exemplifies the benefits of partnership
    national rate was 66.7% (Endnote N).                                                          with industry: accurate, responsive analysis that directly benefits
    Alberta’s Aboriginal labour force participation rate has ranked first                         both industry and government decision makers.  When fully
    among Canadian provinces in four out of the last six years,                                   developed, OILMAP will provide insight into the mix of skilled
    fluctuating between a high of 72.3 % and a low of 67.7%.  In 2012,                            trades needed to support oil sands development, including both
    while missing the target of highest ranking in Canada, Alberta’s                              demand- and supply-side analysis that can show the potential
    result – 69.9% – was still well above the Canadian average of                                 effects of education and immigration policy on labour.
    65.2% (Endnote O). The province that ranked highest in 2012 was                               Attracting Labour
    Prince Edward Island (PEI), increasing from 54.5% in 2011 to 80.5%                            This year, significant progress was made supporting Alberta
    in 2012.  Since the workforce in PEI is small, even a minor change                            employers in their domestic and international recruitment, and
    in the real number of Aboriginal labour force participants produces                           connecting job seekers with opportunities in Alberta.
    a large change in the participation rate. The dramatic increase in
    the 2012 rate represents an increase of 300 participants while
    Alberta’s increase in the same period represents an additional
    4,800 participants.

---PDF PAGE 23---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                   Results Analysis                                                                            19

Attraction Events                                                                        Pre-Arrival Supports
In 2012-13, the Ministry engaged partners in joint labour                                One key element in successfully attracting immigrants with the
attraction initiatives to respond to acute labour challenges.                            right skills to Alberta is support services in their countries of origin.
Initiatives included a virtual job fair hosted in partnership with the                   In 2012-13, the Ministry began developing a strategy to provide
Petroleum Human Resource Council of Canada and a Working                                 coordinated pre-arrival services for immigrants to improve
Abroad Job Fair in Ireland hosted in partnership with Calgary                            successful settlement in Alberta.  This strategy includes extending
Economic Development.  The latter event alone produced over 200                          education credential assessment services to more overseas
successful recruitments by Alberta companies.                                            applicants.
Alberta Newcomer Information Subscription Service                                        Temporary Foreign Workers
Through the Alberta Newcomer Information subscription service,                           Canada’s federal Temporary Foreign Worker (TFW) Program
Enterprise and Advanced Education continued to build a database                          enables employers to hire foreign workers on a temporary basis to
of job seekers in primary target markets with the skills Alberta                         fill immediate skills and labour shortages, when Canadian citizens
needs.  This service effectively attracts skilled workers—the                            and permanent residents are not available to do the job.  In
number of subscribers more than doubled from 2011 to 2012,                               Alberta, this program continues to be effective in meeting
passing 26,000—and gives the province a competitive advantage                            employers’ short-term skilled labour needs.  In 2012-13, Enterprise
in matching available skills with labour demand.                                         and Advanced Education developed pilot and permanent
AlbertaCanada.com Redesign                                                               programs through the TFW Annex Agreement with the federal
Similarly, attention to AlbertaCanada.com doubled in 2012-13                             government, including an update to the steamfitter/pipefitter TFW
when the Ministry re-designed the site in a responsive mode: this                        pilot project that saw six new occupations added to meet a
means that web content can be easily and consistently used on                            demonstrated need.  These additions allowed Alberta employers to
any device regardless of screen size.  Site visits increased to over                     quickly hire the skilled workers they needed, and offered workers
one  million this year, boosted by an extraordinary increase in                          more mobility between employers.
mobile traffic, which rose by 3,500% immediately upon site                               Labour Mobility
deployment, and by 6,800% eight months after deployment.                                 Labour mobility allows Canadian workers in regulated occupations
Supporting Strategic Immigration and Retention                                           to work anywhere in Canada without further training or testing.
When workers are not available from Alberta or within Canada,                            For employers, labour mobility provides a larger pool of qualified
attracting immigrants with the skills and talents Alberta needs is                       candidates and a simpler process for hiring skilled workers from
an important part of addressing labour pressures.  Alberta values                        other parts of Canada.  Enterprise and Advanced Education has
immigrants and the new perspectives they bring.  Trends show                             undertaken a number of initiatives to increase labour mobility in
annual immigration to Alberta is steadily increasing, and this has                       order to increase the strength and skill of Alberta’s workforce.
helped make Alberta a richer, more dynamic, and more                                     International Qualifications Assessment
multi-faceted province.                                                                  Recognition of international educational credentials was promoted
Secretariat for Immigration and Expression of Interest Model                             by the International Qualifications Assessment Service (IQAS),
From 2012 to 2014, Enterprise and Advanced Education is hosting                          which issued over 6,500 assessment certificates in 2012-13.  This
the Provincial/Territorial Secretariat for Immigration.  The                             represents a 9% increase in the number of assessment certificates
secretariat works to build a stronger provincial/territorial voice                       issued from the previous year.  These certificates are intended to
regarding immigration issues in Canada.  In November 2012, the                           help immigrants access the Alberta job market, educational
Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education co-chaired the                             institutions, and professional regulatory organizations.  Over 70%
Federal/Provincial/Territorial Forum of Ministers Responsible for                        of assessment certificate recipients in 2012-13 indicated that an
Immigration, which was the first of its kind in over two years, and                      IQAS assessment certificate helped them make decisions about
the first to be co-chaired by a provincial minister.  This meeting was                   their career, and 70% reported that their current job in Alberta is
instrumental in the federal adoption of an Expression of Interest                        related to their previous education.
model for accepting and processing immigration applications to                           Foreign Qualifications Recognition and Innovation Fund
Canada.  This model will improve processing times, make the                              The Foreign Qualifications Recognition and Innovation Fund
immigration system more responsive to labour market needs, and                           continues to improve Alberta stakeholders’ ability to assess and
increase the likelihood of skilled immigrants’ success.                                  recognize foreign qualifications through grant-funded projects.
Alberta Immigrant Nominee Program                                                        The Ministry provided nearly $670,000 in grants to support nine
Enterprise and Advanced Education also leverages the Alberta                             projects in 2012-13.  One of these projects was the Internationally
Immigrant Nominee Program (AINP) to attract work-ready                                   Educated Nurse (IEN) credential assessment program established
migrants to the province.  Individuals nominated by the                                  by the College of Licensed Practical Nurses of Alberta.  This
Government of Alberta can apply to the federal government for a                          program improves the assessment process and reduces the time to
permanent resident visa as a Provincial Nominee.  In 2012,                               process IENs’ entry into the licensed practice nurse profession.
Enterprise and Advanced Education processed just over 8,000 AINP                         Since 2008, the Government of Alberta has provided over
applications, issuing just over 4,000 nomination certificates,                           $3.5 million through this fund for a total of 41 projects to increase
representing a total of approximately 9,600 individuals (principal                       an organization’s ability to assess and recognize immigrants’ skills
applicants and family members).  The Ministry continued to raise                         and education, and to prepare immigrants for examinations and
awareness of the program with Alberta employers and immigrants                           licensure requirements.

through a coordinated marketing campaign including webinars
that reached 4,000 attendees.

---PDF PAGE 24---
20                                                                              Results Analysis                                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013

Enterprise and Advanced Education recognizes the historical
strength and resiliency of Alberta’s labour force, and also the
current labour challenges we face.  The Ministry is working closely
with our partners to address those immediate challenges.  The
Ministry is also looking ahead as Alberta’s economy evolves,
developing labour force strategies that anticipate the province’s
long-term economic needs.

---PDF PAGE 25---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                       Results Analysis                                                                                21
                              Financial Highlights

                              The consolidated Ministry Financial Statements include:

                                 the Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education,

                                 the Access to the Future Fund,

                                 the Alberta Enterprise Corporation,
                                 Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions,

                                 Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions,

                                 Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions,

                                 Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures, and
                                 Alberta Public Post-Secondary Institutions.

                              Revenue                                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                                                                                2013           2012
                                                                               Actual         Actual
                                                                                              (Restated)

                              Federal and Other Government Grants           $   263,694    $   350,575
                              Government of Alberta Grants                      381,679        388,502
                              Tuition and Non-credit Courses                  1,036,985        988,839
                              Sales, Rentals and Services                       644,318        661,631
                              Donations, Grants and Contributions               375,697        430,630
                              Other Revenue                                     131,391        132,811

                              Total                                         $ 2,833,764    $  2,952,988

                              Revenue decreased by $119 million from the prior year, primarily due to a change in accounting policy.  The
                              Ministry changed its policy for recording capital transfers and restricted capital contributions.  Previously, capital
                              transfers and restricted capital contributions were recorded as revenue when the tangible capital assets were
                              acquired or constructed.  As a result of this policy change, capital transfers and restricted capital contributions are
                              now recognized as revenue over the useful life of the capital asset.  As a result, revenue is lower this year.

                              Expenses by Function                                                                                                                    (in thousands)

                                                                                                              2013            2012
                                                                                                             Actual          Actual

                                                                                                                             (Restated)
                              Health                                                                       $    33,058    $    28,105
                              Education                                                                      5,231,044      5,106,782
                              Agriculture, Research Management and Economic Development                        252,708        204,961
                              Protection of Persons and Property                                                   729            962
                              Regional Planning and Development                                                  5,839           5,284

                              Total                                                                        $ 5,523,378    $ 5,346,094

                              Expenses increased $177 million from the prior year, primarily due to increased salary and wages, amortization
                              because of a change in accounting policy, and supplies and services.  This was partially offset by lower grants due to
                              completion of the Knowledge Infrastructure Program.

---PDF PAGE 26---
22                                                           Results Analysis                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013















                                        eae.alberta.ca/annualreports

---PDF PAGE 27---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                     Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                     23


                      Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education
                      Consolidated Financial Statements
                      March 31, 2013                                                                                 Audited Information
                      Independent Auditor’s Report
                      Consolidated Statement of Operations
                      Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
                      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                      Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
                      Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements

                        1    Consolidated Revenues

                        2    Consolidated Expenses Directly Incurred Detailed by Object

                        3    Consolidated Reconciliation of Budget with Actuals

                        4    Consolidated Related Party Transactions

                        5    Consolidated Allocated Costs

                        6    Consolidated Cash and Cash Equivalents

                        7    Consolidated Portfolio Investments

                        8    Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements

---PDF PAGE 28---
24                                                            Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013






                           Independent Auditor’s Report


                           To the Members of the Legislative Assembly


                           Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
                           I have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced
                           Education, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at March 31, 2013, and the
                           consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant
                           accounting policies and other explanatory information.
                           Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
                           Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in
                           accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management
                           determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material
                           misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
                           Auditor’s Responsibility
                           My responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted
                           my audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply
                           with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
                           consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
                           An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
                           consolidated financial statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the
                           assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or
                           error.  In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and
                           fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
                           the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal
                           control.  An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of
                           accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
                           financial statements.
                           I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                           Opinion
                           In my opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
                           the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education as at March 31, 2013, and the results of its operations and its cash
                           flows for the year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.




                           original signed by
                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           June 7, 2013
                           Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 29---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                             Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                               25
                                 Consolidated Statement of Operations

                                 for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                                     (in thousands)
                                                                                                         2013             2012
                                                                                                        Actuals         Actuals
                                                                                                                       (Restated Note 3)
                                 Revenues (Schedules 1 and 3)
                                     Government Transfers
                                         Government of Alberta Grants                                $   381,679      $   388,502
                                        Federal and Other Government Grants                              263,694          350,575
                                     Investment Income                                                   118,203          118,820
                                     Premiums, Fees and Licences                                            7,392            5,537
                                     Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                    1,036,985          988,839
                                     Sales, Rentals and Services                                         644,318          661,631
                                     Donations, Grants and Contributions                                 375,697          430,630
                                     Other Revenue                                                          5,796            8,454
                                                                                                       2,833,764        2,952,988

                                 Expenses – Directly Incurred (Note 2(b) and Schedules 2, 3 and 5)
                                     Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                4,999,033        4,797,988
                                     Alberta Innovates Corporations                                      158,445          159,056
                                     Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                         2,055            1,737
                                     Department
                                        Support for Adult Learning                                       205,276          237,390
                                        Apprenticeship Delivery                                            39,523           31,543
                                        Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                          17,318           17,713
                                        Research and Innovation Capacity                                    8,044           10,615
                                        Technology Commercialization                                       10,711           11,095
                                        Ministry Support Services                                          35,288           31,322
                                        Economic Competitiveness                                           19,884           18,568
                                        Workforce Strategies                                               27,801           29,067
                                 Ministry Expense                                                      5,523,378        5,346,094

                                 Ministry Net Operating Results                                      $(2,689,614)     $(2,393,106)

                                 The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 30---
26                                                                        Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                 EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                                  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

                                  as at March 31, 2013                                                                                                                                     (in thousands)
                                                                                                                            2013              2012
                                                                                                                                          (Restated Note 3)
                                  Assets
                                     Cash and Cash Equivalents (Schedule 6)                                            $   1,184,681     $  1,279,132
                                     Accounts Receivable (Note 4)                                                            407,383          458,469
                                     Portfolio Investments (Schedule 7)                                                    3,585,780        3,395,270
                                     Loans and Advances (Note 5)                                                             861,170          594,132
                                     Tangible Capital Assets (Note 6)                                                      7,387,311        7,213,183
                                     Inventory                                                                                27,826            32,261
                                     Prepaid Expenses                                                                         48,366            45,432

                                                                                                                       $13,502,517       $13,017,879

                                  Liabilities
                                     Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities (Note 7)                                 $     702,160     $    684,147
                                     Deferred Revenue (Note 8)                                                             2,246,723        1,035,439
                                     Long Term Debt (Note 9)                                                                 711,932          698,770
                                     Employee Future Benefits (Note 15)                                                      251,783          234,342
                                                                                                                           3,912,598        2,652,698

                                  Net Assets
                                     Net Assets at Beginning of Year                                                     10,365,181         9,610,359
                                     Adjustment to Net Assets (Note 17)                                                   (1,125,909)               —
                                     Net Operating Results                                                                (2,689,614)      (2,393,106)
                                     Increase in Post-Secondary Institution Endowments (Note 13)                              52,709            72,545
                                     Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                                          2,987,552        3,075,383
                                     Net Assets at End of Year                                                             9,589,919       10,365,181

                                                                                                                       $13,502,517       $13,017,879

                                  Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities (Notes 10 and 11)
                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 31---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                              Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                                 27
                                  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

                                  for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                                       (in thousands)
                                                                                                                            2013             2012
                                                                                                                                         (Restated Note 3)
                                  Operating Transactions
                                     Net Operating Results                                                              $(2,689,614)     $(2,393,106)
                                     Non-cash Items included in Net Operating Results
                                         Amortization                                                                       447,833          426,162
                                         Expended Capital Recognized as Revenue                                              (56,004)               —
                                         Write-down of Tangible Capital Assets                                                16,205            3,132
                                         Adjustment to Tangible Capital Assets                                                  (600)             397
                                         Loss on Disposal of Tangible Capital Assets                                           3,643            1,121
                                         Donation of Capital Assets                                                          (11,214)         (57,929)
                                         Valuation Adjustments
                                            Provision for Employee Future Benefits                                            17,441           15,990
                                            Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                                  3,530           57,785
                                            Student Loans Valuation Adjustments                                               (3,781)          (2,838)
                                            Provision for Vacation Pay and Other Provisions                                      170            2,758
                                                                                                                         (2,272,391)      (1,946,528)

                                     Decrease (Increase) in Accounts Receivable                                               51,086          (80,582)
                                     Increase in Prepaid Expenses                                                             (2,934)          (9,171)
                                     Decrease in Inventory                                                                     4,435            9,502
                                     Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                          17,843          (27,615)
                                     Increase (Decrease) in Deferred Revenue                                                141,379           (14,755)
                                     Cash Applied to Operating Transactions                                              (2,060,582)      (2,069,149)

                                  Capital Transactions
                                     Acquisition of Tangible Capital Assets                                                (631,651)        (868,745)
                                     Proceeds from Disposal of Tangible Capital Assets                                         1,656            1,859
                                     Cash Applied to Capital Transactions                                                  (629,995)        (866,886)

                                  Investing Transactions
                                     Student Loan Disbursements                                                            (340,131)        (267,830)
                                     Student Loan Repayments                                                                  73,344           55,106
                                     Net Purchase of Portfolio Investments                                                 (190,510)        (158,544)
                                     Cash Applied to Investing Transactions                                                (457,297)        (371,268)

                                  Financing Transactions
                                     Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                                         2,987,552        3,075,383
                                     Increase in Endowment Funds (Note 13)                                                    52,709           72,545
                                     Debt Issues                                                                              43,866           19,522
                                     Debt Retirement                                                                         (30,704)         (34,220)
                                     Cash Provided by Financing Transactions                                              3,053,423        3,133,230

                                  Decrease in Cash and Cash Equivalents                                                      (94,451)       (174,073)
                                  Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                                            1,279,132        1,453,205

                                  Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                                                $ 1,184,681      $ 1,279,132

                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these consolidated financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 32---
28                                                             Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                             Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

                             March 31, 2013


                 Note 1      Authority and Purpose

                             The Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education has been designated as responsible for various Acts by the
                             Government Organization Act, Chapter G-10, revised Statutes of Alberta 2000 and its regulations.  Below are the
                             organizations that form the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education and the authority under which each
                             organization operates.  Schedule 8 provides a detailed listing of entities included in the organizational groupings.

                             Organization                                              Authority
                             Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education           Government Organization Act
                             Access to the Future Fund                                 Access to the Future Act
                             Alberta Enterprise Corporation                            Alberta Enterprise Corporation Act
                             Alberta Innovates Corporations                            Alberta Research and Innovation Act
                             Public Post-Secondary Institutions                        Post-secondary Learning Act
                             In support of Alberta’s vision, Enterprise and Advanced Education’s purpose is to assist Alberta to be a learning and
                             innovative society.

                Note 2       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices

                             These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.
                     (a)     Reporting Entity
                             The reporting entity is the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education, for which the Minister of Enterprise and
                             Advanced Education is accountable.  The accounts of the Department are fully consolidated with the entities listed in
                             Schedule 8 on a line-by-line basis.  Revenue and expense, capital, investing and financing transactions and related
                             asset and liability accounts between the consolidated entities have been eliminated.  Accounting policies have been
                             adjusted to conform with those of the Ministry.
                             The year-end of the Access to the Future Fund, Alberta Enterprise Corporation, Alberta Innovates Corporations,
                             University of Alberta, University of Calgary, University of Lethbridge, Athabasca University and the Banff Centre is
                             March 31.
                             The year-end for colleges, technical institutes, Grant MacEwan University and Mount Royal University is June 30.
                             Transactions of these organizations that have occurred between the period July 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013, and that
                             significantly affect the consolidated accounts, have been recorded.
                     (b)     Basis of Financial Reporting
                             Revenues
                             All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services have not
                             been provided by year-end is recorded as deferred revenue.
                             Investment income earned from restricted sources is deferred and recognized when the stipulations imposed have
                             been met.  Gains and losses on investments are not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations until
                             realized.
                             Government Transfers
                             As of April 1, 2012, the Ministry retroactively adopted PS 3410, Government Transfers. This revised standard
                             establishes how to account for and report government transfers to individuals, organizations, and other
                             governments from both a transferring government and a recipient government perspective. The impact on the
                             Ministry financial statements is disclosed in Note 17.
                             Government transfers and the associated externally restricted investment income are recorded as deferred revenue
                             if the terms for use of the transfer, or the terms along with the Ministry’s actions and communications as to the use
                             of the transfer, create a liability. These transfers are recognized as revenue as the terms are met and, when
                             applicable, the Ministry complies with its communicated use of the transfer.
                             All other government transfers, without terms for use of the transfer, are recorded as revenue when the Ministry is
                             eligible to receive the funds.

---PDF PAGE 33---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                     Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                29


                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)

                             Donations and Non-Government Grants
                             Donations and non-government grants are received from individuals, corporations, and private sector not-for-profit
                             organizations.  Donations and non-government grants may be unrestricted or externally restricted for operating or
                             capital purposes.  Unrestricted donations and non-government grants are recorded as revenue in the year received
                             or in the year the funds are committed.  Externally restricted donations, non-government grants, and realized gains
                             and losses for the associated externally restricted investment income are recorded as deferred revenue if the terms
                             for their use, or the terms along with the Ministry’s actions and communications as to the use, create a liability.
                             These resources are recognized as the terms are met and, when applicable, the Ministry complies with its
                             communicated use.
                             Grants and Donations of or for Land
                             The Ministry recognizes transfers and donations for the purchase of land as a liability when received, and as revenue
                             when the Ministry purchases the land.  The Ministry recognizes in-kind contributions of land as revenue at the fair
                             value of the land.  When the Ministry cannot determine the fair value, it records such in-kind contributions at a
                             nominal value of $1.
                             Expenses
                             Directly Incurred
                             Directly incurred expenses are those costs the Ministry has primary responsibility and accountability for, as reflected
                             in the Government’s budget documents.
                             In addition to program operating expenses such as salaries and supplies, etc. directly incurred expenses also include:

                                amortization of tangible capital assets.
                                inventory consumed.

                                pension costs which comprise the cost of employer contributions for current service of employees during the
                                  year.

                                valuation adjustments which include changes in the valuation allowances used to reflect financial assets at their
                                  net recoverable or other appropriate value.  Valuation adjustments represent the change in management’s
                                  estimate of future payments arising from obligations relating to Universities Academic Pension Plan, student
                                  loans and vacation pay.
                             Grants are recognized as expenses when authorized and eligibility criteria, if any, are met.
                             Incurred by Others
                             Services contributed by other entities in support of the Ministry operations are disclosed in Schedules 4 and 5.
                             Assets
                             Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                             for consumption in the normal course of operations.  Financial assets of the Ministry are limited to cash and financial
                             claims, such as advances to and receivables from other organizations, employees and other individuals.
                             Portfolio investments are recorded at cost.  Gains and losses on investments are recognized when an investment is
                             sold or when there is a permanent impairment in the value of an investment.
                             Loans and Advances are recorded at cost net of the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy and
                             the allowance for repayment assistance.
                             Tangible capital assets of the Ministry are recorded at historical cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over the
                             estimated useful lives of the assets.  The threshold for capitalizing new systems development is $250,000 and the
                             threshold for major enhancements is $100,000.  The threshold for all other tangible capital assets is $5,000 and
                             $1,000 as determined by the entities.  All land is capitalized.
                             When physical assets (tangible capital assets) are gifted or sold for a nominal sum, the fair values of these physical
                             assets less any nominal proceeds are recorded as grants in kind.  Unrealized gains and losses on transfers to
                             controlled entities are eliminated on consolidation.
                             Expenses for patents owned by the Ministry as a result of research activity are not capitalized due to the uncertain
                             value of benefits that may accrue to the Ministry.
                             Expenses on the acquisition or development of other intangible assets including intellectual capital are not
                             capitalized as currently there is no acceptable methodology for measuring the value of future benefits accruing to
                             the Ministry.
                             Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value.  Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

---PDF PAGE 34---
30                                                               Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                      EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


                   Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)

                              Post-secondary institutions have collections consisting of historical artifacts and provincial, national and
                              international works of art.  The value of these collections, $160,661,875 (2012 - $156,617,000), is not recognized in
                              the financial statements.
                              Donated tangible capital assets are recorded at their fair value at the time of contribution.
                              Liabilities
                              Liabilities are recorded to the extent that they represent present obligations as a result of events and transactions
                              occurring prior to the end of the fiscal year.  The settlement of liabilities will result in sacrifice of economic benefits in
                              the future.
                              Net Assets/Net Liabilities
                              Net Assets/Net Liabilities represent the difference between the carrying value of assets held by the Ministry and its
                              liabilities.
                              Canadian public sector accounting standards require a “net debt” presentation for the consolidated statement of
                              financial position in the summary consolidated financial statements of governments.  Net debt presentation reports
                              the difference between financial assets and liabilities as “net debt” or “net financial assets” as an indicator of the
                              future revenues required to pay for past transactions and events.  The Ministry operates within the government
                              reporting entity, and does not finance all its expenditures by independently raising revenues.  Accordingly, these
                              consolidated financial statements do not report a net debt indicator.
                              Endowments
                              Donations and government transfers that must be maintained in perpetuity are recognized as direct increases in
                              endowment net assets when received or receivable.  Realized gains and losses attributable to portfolio investments
                              that must be maintained in perpetuity are also recognized as a direct increase in endowment net assets when
                              received or receivable.
                              Valuation of Financial Assets and Liabilities
                              Fair value is the amount of consideration agreed upon in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable,
                              willing parties who are under no compulsion to act.
                              The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities and
                              deferred revenue are estimated to approximate their carrying values because of the short-term nature of these
                              instruments.  The fair value of long-term debt approximates its carrying value as interest rates approximate the
                              market value.  The fair values of Loans and Advances and liability for student loans issued are not reported as there is
                              no organized financial market for these instruments and it is not practicable within constraints of timeliness or cost
                              to estimate the fair values with sufficient reliability.
                              Payments under Reciprocal Agreements
                              The Ministry entered into agreements with the Federal Government to provide services on its behalf.
                              Expenses incurred and revenue earned in the provision of services under these agreements are recorded in the
                              records of the Federal Government and are not included in these consolidated financial statements.  Amounts paid
                              and recovered under agreements are disclosed in Note 12.
                              Measurement Uncertainty                                                                                                                                                                                                          (in thousands)
                              Measurement uncertainty exists when there is a variance between the recognized or disclosed amount and another
                              reasonably possible amount.
                              The areas with measurement uncertainty are:

                                 the allowance for impaired loans amounting to $75,567 (2012 - $58,117),

                                 the allowance for loan subsidy amounting to $35,230 (2012 - $32,161),

                                 the allowance for repayment assistance amounting to $2,088 (2012 - $1,562) and
                                 adjustment to opening net assets amounting to $1,125,909 relating to the retroactive application of the revised
                                   PS 3410, Government Transfers.
                              The Ministry has made certain estimates in the following areas:

                                 Recovery and default rates in the determination of the allowance for impaired loans.

                                 Student loan amortization periods in the determination of the allowance for loan subsidy.

                                 Future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates in the determination of the
                                  allowance for repayment assistance.

---PDF PAGE 35---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                      Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                 31


                  Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)

                              With respect to the Universities Academic Pension Plan, the plan’s actuary has made certain estimates and
                              assumptions in the determination of the March 31, 2013 extrapolated results.  Refer to Note 15 for these
                              assumptions.
                              Changes in these estimates could materially impact the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy,
                              the allowance for repayment assistance, the adjustment to net assets and the unfunded liability for the Universities
                              Academic Pension Plan.
                              Government Endowment Funds for Research and Scholarships                                                                                    (in thousands)
                              The Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research Endowment Fund operates under the Alberta Research and
                              Innovation Act for the purpose of supporting medical research.  The Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering
                              Research Endowment Fund also operates under the Alberta Research and Innovation Act for the purpose of
                              supporting science and engineering research.  The Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund operates under the Alberta
                              Heritage Scholarship Act for the purpose of investing the endowment funds to make income available for
                              scholarships.
                              The Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance controls these endowments, however, the Ministry of Enterprise and
                              Advanced Education has an economic interest in the endowments as they assist in funding Ministry programs.
                              Additional information on these endowments can be found in the financial statements for Treasury Board and
                              Finance.

                                                                                                                                 Net Assets
                                                                                                                    2013                           2012
                                                                                                         Value at Cost    Fair Value   Value at Cost    Fair Value

                              Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research Endowment Fund            $ 1,282,905    $  1,436,184   $  1,255,039    $ 1,364,081
                              Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund               739,740        826,309        721,177         781,845
                              Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund                                              737,375        819,731        715,482         769,576

                                                                                                         $ 2,760,020    $  3,082,224   $  2,691,698    $ 2,915,502

                      (c)     Future Accounting Changes
                              PS 3450 Financial Instruments
                              In June 2011 the Public Sector Accounting Board issued the accounting standard effective for fiscal years starting on
                              or after April 1, 2015 for governments.  Adoption of this standard requires corresponding adoption of: PS 2601,
                              Foreign Currency Translation; PS 1201, Financial Statements Presentation; and PS 3041, Portfolio Investments in the
                              same fiscal period.  These standards provide guidance on: recognition, measurement, and disclosure of financial
                              instruments; standards on how to account for and report transactions that are denominated in foreign currency;
                              general reporting principles and standards for the disclosure of information in financial statements; and how to
                              account for and report portfolio investments.
                              The Ministry has the option of adopting this standard prior to fiscal year 2015-16.  The Ministry will adopt this
                              standard in the same period in which the province makes this adoption.

---PDF PAGE 36---
32                                                               Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                     EAE Annual Report 2012-2013

                 Note 3       Prior Period Restatement due to Government Reorganization and                                                                         (in thousands)
                              Correction of an Error

                              As a result of cabinet restructuring on May 8, 2012 the Ministry of Advanced Education and Technology was
                              restructured.  Responsibility for Economic Competitiveness was transferred from the former Ministry of Treasury
                              Board and Enterprise.  Responsibility for Workforce Strategies was transferred from the Ministry of Human Services.
                              The Ministry was renamed as Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education.  Comparatives for 2012 have been
                              restated as if the Ministry had always been assigned with its current responsibilities.
                              In prior years, adjustments to Endowments and Other Net Assets were combined in error.  The prior year amounts for
                              endowments and net assets are now separated, resulting in an increase to Endowments of $16,989 and a decrease in
                              Net Assets of the same.
                              The impact of the correction of the error and the government reorganization are as follows:

                                                                                                        March 31, 2012
                                                                                          As Previously                   Restated
                                                                                             Stated      Adjustments      Amounts

                              Assets                                                      $13,017,213    $        666   $13,017,879

                              Liabilities                                                    2,649,839          2,859      2,652,698

                              Revenue                                                        2,980,000        (27,012)     2,952,988
                              Expenses                                                       5,297,254         48,840      5,346,094
                              Net Operating Results                                         (2,317,254)       (75,852)    (2,393,106)

                              Net Financing provided from General Revenue                    2,998,206         77,177      3,075,383
                              Net Assets at March 31, 2012                                   9,630,866        (20,507)     9,610,359
                              Increase in Post Secondary Institution Endowments                 55,556         16,989         72,545

                              Net Assets restated at March 31, 2012                       $10,367,374    $      (2,193) $10,365,181


                 Note 4       Accounts Receivable                                                                                                                   (in thousands)

                                                                               2013                          2012
                                                                            Allowance          Net            Net
                                                               Gross       for Doubtful    Realizable      Realizable
                                                              Amount         Accounts         Value          Value

                                                                                                          (Restated Note 3)

                              Accounts Receivable           $   414,599    $     (7,216)  $    407,383    $   458,469

                              Accounts receivable are unsecured and non-interest bearing.

---PDF PAGE 37---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                     Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                 33


                 Note 5      Loans and Advances                                                                                                                    (in thousands)

                                                                                             2013           2012

                             Loans Receivable                                             $   974,055    $   761,940

                                Less:
                                Allowance for Loan Relief Completion Payments                      —         (75,968)
                                Allowance for Impaired Loans                                  (75,567)       (58,117)
                                Allowance for Loan Subsidy                                    (35,230)       (32,161)
                                Allowance for Repayment Assistance                             (2,088)        (1,562)

                                                                                          $   861,170    $   594,132

                             Under the Alberta Student Loan Program, loans are provided by the Ministry to qualifying students on terms
                             prescribed by the Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education.
                             Loans become payable and interest is earned starting six months after students discontinue their studies or
                             graduate.  Loans are unsecured and are repayable to a maximum term of 114 months.  The interest rates on student
                             loans are a floating rate of prime or a fixed rate of prime plus 2%.
                             Loan relief completion program was replaced with a completion incentive grant effective August 1, 2012.  As a result,
                             an allowance for future loan relief completion payments is no longer required.  Loan relief completion payments on
                             Alberta Student Loans were made to students who completed their studies by July 31, 2012 and assumed a total
                             combined indebtedness of Canada and Alberta Student Loans exceeding established debt limits.
                             Loans are classified as impaired when:

                                there is no longer reasonable assurance as to the timely collection of the full amount of principal or interest, or

                                the borrower has failed to make payments for a period of 150 days, or

                                interest is owing to the Province for a period of 180 days.
                             When loans are classified as impaired, interest ceases to accrue.
                             Loans receivable are stated at cost net of the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy and the
                             allowance for repayment assistance.
                             The allowance for impaired loans is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be impaired.
                             The key assumptions used to determine this provision are default and recovery rates.
                             The allowance for loan subsidy is a provision that reflects the future benefit provided to students.  This benefit is a
                             result of favourable loan terms where the Ministry does not receive interest payments over the term of the loans to
                             fully cover the Ministry’s cost of financing the loan portfolio.  Changes in future year estimates are expensed and are
                             amortized over the estimated life of the student repayment period.
                             The allowance for repayment assistance is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be
                             forgiven by the Ministry through the repayment assistance program.

---PDF PAGE 38---
34                                                                        Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


                   Note 6         Tangible Capital Assets                                                                                                                                   (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                      2013
                                                                                                                                                             Computer
                                                                                                                             Land                         Hardware and
                                                                                          Land            Building      Improvement      Equipment (3)       Software          Other (4)           Total



                                  Estimated Useful Life                                  Indefinite       3-50 years     10-40 years        3-40 years        3-15 years       3-40 years

                                  Historical Cost (1)
                                      Beginning of year (Restated)                    $    268,572      $ 8,352,917      $     41,114     $  1,934,082      $   897,839      $    666,671     $12,161,195
                                      Additions (2)                                           6,711         413,698              2,926         113,758            65,952           39,820          642,865
                                      Disposals, including write-downs                           (34)        (17,502)               —           (65,943)         (46,202)           (4,175)       (133,856)
                                      Adjustments (5)                                             (3)          5,408                —             2,154           (2,287)           (5,377)            (105)
                                                                                           275,246        8,754,521            44,040        1,984,051          915,302           696,939       12,670,099

                                  Accumulated Amortization
                                      Beginning of year (Restated)                               —        2,556,978            12,490        1,148,676          771,723           458,146        4,948,013
                                      Amortization expense                                       —          219,282              1,095         133,309            56,392           37,755          447,833
                                      Effect of disposals including                              —           (15,141)               —           (53,431)         (40,701)           (3,077)       (112,350)
                                      write-downs
                                      Adjustments (5)                                            —             1,656                 (2)         (1,993)           1,669            (2,038)            (708)
                                                                                                 —        2,762,775            13,583        1,226,561          789,083           490,786        5,282,788

                                  Net Book Value at March 31, 2013                    $    275,246      $ 5,991,746      $     30,457     $    757,490      $   126,219      $    206,153     $  7,387,311

                                  Net Book Value at March 31, 2012                    $    268,572      $ 5,795,939      $     28,624     $    785,406      $   126,116      $    208,526     $  7,213,183

                                  (1)   Historical cost includes work-in-progress at March 31, 2013 totalling $598,960 comprised of Building and Site Improvements - $537,362,
                                       Equipment - $16,756, Computer Hardware and Software - $44,592 and Other - $250.
                                  (2)   Additions include donated capital assets in the amount of $11,214 (2012 - 57,929).
                                  (3)   Equipment includes vehicles, heavy equipment, office equipment and furniture, other equipment and library materials.
                                  (4)   Includes leasehold improvements, library materials and asset retirement obligations.
                                  (5)   Includes adjustments for accounting policy alignments and reclassifications between capital asset categories.

                   Note 7         Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                                                                         2013             2012
                                                                                       (Restated Note 3)

                                  Accounts Payable                   $     21,987     $     12,654
                                  Accrued Liabilities                    680,173           671,493

                                                                     $   702,160      $    684,147


                   Note 8         Deferred Revenue                                                                                                                                          (in thousands)

                                                                                                            2013             2012

                                  Restricted Contributions - Unexpended (1)                             $   839,482      $    890,418
                                  Restricted Capital Contributions - Expended (2)                         1,252,132                 —
                                  Restricted Contributions                                                2,091,614           890,418

                                  Deferred Service Revenue (3)                                              155,109           145,021

                                                                                                        $ 2,246,723      $  1,035,439

                                  (1)   Restricted Contributions - Unexpended respresents restricted grants and donations to acquire capital assets which have not yet been spent.
                                  (2)   Restricted Capital Contributions - Expended represents restricted grants and donations that have been used to acquire capital assets that
                                       created a liability that will be recognized to revenue as the Ministry meets the stipulations, generally over the life of the assets.
                                  (3)    Payments received prior to service being provided, which are primarily tuition payments.

---PDF PAGE 39---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                               Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                                  35


                   Note 9         Long Term Debt                                                                                                                                            (in thousands)

                                                                                                                           Average
                                                                                                 Maturity               Interest Rate     Cost 2013 (2)    Cost 2012 (2)

                                  Debentures (1)                                         Up to December 2047                   5.00%      $    688,491     $    674,668
                                  Bank Loan                                                     June 2018                      4.63%                331            2,284
                                  Mortgages                                                    March 2016                      5.13%              2,246            2,351
                                  Other (3)                                                                                                     13,577           13,950
                                                                                                                                               704,645          693,253

                                  Liabilities under Capital Leases (4)                                                                            7,287            5,517

                                                                                                                                          $    711,932     $    698,770

                                  (1)   Debentures are payable to Alberta Capital Finance Authority.
                                  (2)   Cost approximates fair market value.
                                  (3)   Primarily includes asset retirement obligations.
                                  (4)   The calculation of the liabilities under capital leases are as follows:

                                                                                                 2013             2012

                                         Liabilities, beginning of the year                  $       5,517    $       6,984
                                         Additions to liabilities during the year                    6,474            1,169
                                         Principal payments                                         (4,704)          (2,636)

                                         Liabilities, end of year                            $       7,287    $       5,517

                                  Principal repayments in each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:


                                  2013-14          $      32,192
                                  2014-15                 32,009
                                  2015-16                 28,260
                                  2016-17                 27,797
                                  2017-18                 27,425
                                  Thereafter            564,249

                                                   $    711,932

---PDF PAGE 40---
36                                                               Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                      EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


               Note 10        Contractual Obligations                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                              Contractual obligations are obligations of the Ministry to others that will become liabilities in the future when the
                              terms of those contracts or agreements are met.

                                                                                                              2013           2012

                              Obligations under Operating Leases, Contracts and Programs                  $ 1,002,992    $   948,760
                              Loans and Advances Approved (1)                                                  11,135           7,361

                                                                                                          $ 1,014,127    $   956,121

                              (1)   Loans and Advances Approved are comprised of uncashed student loans.
                              Estimated payment requirements for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:

                                                                        2013
                                             Obligations
                                                under
                                              Operating
                                                Leases,      Loans and
                                            Contracts and     Advances
                                              Programs       Approved          Total

                              2013-14        $   574,423    $     11,135    $   585,558
                              2014-15            182,112              —         182,112
                              2015-16              87,938             —          87,938
                              2016-17              56,243             —          56,243
                              2017-18              22,146             —          22,146
                              Thereafter           80,130             —          80,130

                                             $ 1,002,992    $     11,135    $ 1,014,127


                Note 11       Contingent Liabilities                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                              At March 31, 2013, the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education was named as a defendant in 6 (2012 - 7)
                              specific legal actions.  The total claimed in 3 (2012 - 6) actions approximate $15 (2012 - $658).  For the other claims,
                              no specified amounts have yet been claimed; the amount of these claims will be determined at trial.  The resulting
                              loss, if any, from these claims cannot be determined.
                              The Public Post-Secondary Institutions also entered into employment contracts that included a commitment to
                              provide or guarantee housing loans in the amount of $882 (2012 - $989).

---PDF PAGE 41---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                     Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                 37


               Note 12        Payments under Agreement                                                                                                             (in thousands)

                              The Ministry has entered into agreements to deliver programs that are fully funded by the Government of Canada
                              and the Provincial/Territorial (P/T) Forum of Immigration Ministers Secretariat.  Costs under these agreements are
                              incurred by the Ministry under authority of section 25 of the Financial Administration Act.  Accounts Receivable
                              includes $64,436 (2012 - $78,101) and Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities includes $309 (2012 - $10,058)
                              relating to payments under agreement.
                              Government of Canada:
                              Amounts paid and (payable) under agreements with program sponsors are as follows:

                                                                                                                           2013           2012

                             Canadian Millennium Scholarship Foundation
                                 Canadian Millennium Scholarships                                                       $      (205)   $       (281)

                             Government of Canada
                                 Canada Study Grants                                                                           (128)           (333)
                                 Canada Access Grants                                                                            (10)            (8)
                                 Canada Student Grants                                                                       73,614         73,844
                                 French Minority Language Education and French Second Language Instruction                    4,504          4,226

                                                                                                                        $    77,775    $    77,448

                              P/T Secretariat
                              In 2008-09, a P/T Forum of Immigration Ministers Secretariat was created with the goal of enhancing P/T alignment
                              and collaboration on immigration and integration issues.  The cost of running the Secretariat is shared among
                              provinces/territories, with the exception of Quebec, which is a member holding observer status.
                              As per the Terms of Reference for the P/T Secretariat, the lead jurisdiction will be rotated every two years.
                              Commencing April 1, 2012, Alberta will host and chair this Forum until March 31, 2014.
                              The budget for the Secretariat is reviewed by the leading jurisdiction and approved by all P/Ts.  At the end of each
                              term, any surplus will be transferred to the incoming lead jurisdiction.
                              The Ministry is the lead jurisdiction in Alberta and has incurred $206 in expenses relating to payments under
                              agreement.


               Note 13        Endowment Funds                                                                                                                      (in thousands)

                              Endowments consist of externally restricted donations received by the universities, colleges, and internal allocations
                              by the post-secondary institutions’ Boards of Governors, the principal of which is required to be maintained intact in
                              perpetuity.  Donors have placed restrictions on their contributions to the endowment funds of universities and
                              colleges.  The principal restriction is that the original contribution not be spent except as expressly allowed under
                              the Post-secondary Learning Act for endowments made to universities and colleges.  Other potential restrictions are
                              that any investment income of the endowment fund that is required to offset the impact of inflation should also not
                              be spent.

                                                                              2013           2012
                                                                                          (Restated Note 3)

                             Beginning Balance                             $ 1,490,109    $ 1,417,564
                             Contributions                                      53,513         77,219
                             Capitalization of Investment Earnings               1,458          4,010
                             Net Transfers from Deferred Contributions           4,235          2,950
                             Net Transfers to Other Net Assets                   (6,497)      (11,634)

                                                                           $ 1,542,818    $ 1,490,109


               Note 14        Funds Held on Behalf of Others                                                                                                       (in thousands)

                              The Ministry holds funds on behalf of others over which they have no power of appropriation.  Because the Ministry
                              has no equity in the funds and holds them for the purposes of various other organizations, they are not included in
                              the Ministry’s financial statements.  Total net assets of the funds held on behalf of others by the Ministry at
                              March 31, 2013 were $26,532 (2012 Restated - $28,611).

---PDF PAGE 42---
38                                                              Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                     EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


               Note 15        Employee Future Benefits                                                                                                             (in thousands)


                                                                              2013           2012

                              Pension Liability
                                 Universities Academic Pension Plan        $   198,831    $   179,348
                                 Supplementary Pension Plans                    52,952         54,994

                                                                           $   251,783    $   234,342
                              Universities Academic Pension Plan
                              The Universities Academic Pension Plan (UAPP) is a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan primarily
                              comprised of academic staff members and other eligible employees of the Universities of Alberta, Calgary,
                              Lethbridge, and Athabasca and Banff Centre (employers).  The Universities Academic Pension Plan Board (the Board)
                              is the trustee and administrator of the UAPP.  The Board operates under the authority of the Employment Pension
                              Plans Act.
                              An actuarial valuation of the UAPP was carried out as at December 31, 2010 and was extrapolated to March 31, 2013
                              using the projected unit cost method prorated on benefits.  The actuarial valuation was based on a number of
                              assumptions about future events, such as inflation rates, interest rates, wage and salary increases and employee
                              turnover and mortality.  The significant actuarial assumptions used to measure the accrued benefit obligation are as
                              follows:

                                                                                             2013           2012

                              Discount Rate                                                     6.20%          6.50%
                              Expected Rate of Return on Plan Asset                             6.20%          6.50%
                              Salary Escalation Rate (1)                                        3.50%          3.50%
                              Real Wage Growth                                                  1.25%          1.25%
                              Inflation Rate                                                    2.25%          2.25%
                              Estimated Average Remaining Service Life (years)                    10.2           10.2
                              (1)   Excludes merit and promotion rates.
                              The 2012 UAPP Annual Report identifies an unfunded liability at December 31, 2012 in the amount of $1,107,000
                              (2011 Restated - $1,191,453).  An actuarial extrapolation of this amount to March 31, 2013, adjusted for public sector
                              reporting standards, estimates the unfunded liability at $1,149,175 (2012 - $1,153,334) and unamortized actuarial
                              losses totalling $230,707 (2012 - $257,272).  The following table provides further breakdown of how the liability has
                              been allocated amongst the participants:

                                                              Alberta
                                                             Treasury                                    March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012
                                                            Board and                                   Extrapolated   Extrapolated
                                                              Finance      Employees      Employers        Results        Results

                              Pre ‘92                       $   327,710    $   219,467    $   219,467    $   766,644    $   759,322
                              Post ‘91                               —         191,266        191,265        382,531        394,013

                              Total Unfunded Liability      $   327,710    $   410,733    $   410,732    $ 1,149,175    $ 1,153,335

                              The unfunded liability for service prior to January 1, 1992 is financed by additional contributions of 1.25%
                              (2011 - 1.25%) of salaries by Alberta Treasury Board and Finance and the balance of the required contributions,
                              2.34% (2012 - 2.34%) of salaries, is equally split between employees and employers in order to eliminate the
                              unfunded deficiency by December 31, 2034.  Employees and employers are responsible for fully funding service after
                              1991 which consists of special payments of 5.24% (2012 - 5.24%) of salaries until December 31, 2021.
                              The total contributions for the year (which includes the current year’s service) were $213,091 (2012 - $203,318) of
                              which the contributions made by employees were $101,092 (2012 - $96,034) and contributions made by Alberta
                              Treasury Board and Finance were $10,366 (2012 - $10,740).
                              Additional information on UAPP can be found in the Annual Report of UAPP.

---PDF PAGE 43---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                       Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                    39


                  Note 15     Employee Future Benefits (continued)                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                              The expense and financial position of the UAPP is as follows:

                                                                                                2013           2012

                              Pension Liability
                                 Accrued Benefit Obligation
                                    Balance at the beginning of the year                    $ 3,829,138     $ 3,579,328
                                    Current Service Cost                                        138,301         135,339
                                    Interest Cost                                               251,553         235,472
                                    Benefits Paid                                              (194,803)       (184,033)
                                    Actuarial Gain/Loss                                         128,545          63,033
                                 Balance at the end of the year                               4,152,734       3,829,139

                                 Pension Fund Assets                                          (3,003,559)    (2,675,804)

                                 Total Unfunded Liability                                   $ 1,149,175     $ 1,153,335

                                 Ministry’s Portion of the Total Unfunded Liability         $   410,732     $   419,268
                                 Unamortized Actuarial Net Loss                                (211,901)       (239,920)

                              Total UAPP Pension Liability                                  $   198,831     $   179,348

                              The expense recorded in these financial statements is $121,117 (2012 Restated - $107,668) and includes the
                              following components:

                                                                                                               2013            2012
                                                                                                                              (Restated)
                              Pension Expense
                                    Current Period Benefit Cost                                             $    69,151    $    67,670
                                    Amortization of Actuarial Gains/Losses                                       23,522         16,718
                                 Pension Expense                                                                 92,673         84,388
                                    Interest Cost on the Average Accrued Benefit Obligation                     105,456         95,543
                                    Expected Return on Average Pension Plan Assets                              (77,012)        (72,263)
                                 Pension Interest Expense                                                        28,444         23,280

                              Total UAPP Pension Expense                                                    $   121,117    $   107,668

                              Ministry Pension Plans
                              The Ministry participates in the multi-employer pension plans: Management Employees Pension Plan, Local
                              Authorities Pension Plan and Public Service Pension Plan.  The Ministry also participates in the multi-employer
                              Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers.  The expense for these pension plans is equivalent to
                              the annual contributions of $126,585 for the year ended March 31, 2013 (2012 - $110,877).
                              At December 31, 2012, the Management Employees Pension Plan reported a deficiency of $303,423
                              (2011 - deficiency of $517,726), the Local Authorities Pension Plan reported a deficiency of $4,977,303
                              (2011 - deficiency of $4,639,390) and the Public Service Pension Plan reported a deficiency of $1,645,141
                              (2011 - deficiency of $1,790,383).  At December 31, 2012, the Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service
                              Managers had a deficiency of $51,870 (2011 - deficiency of $53,489).
                              Certain consolidated entities provide defined supplementary executive retirement plans for certain management
                              staff, and other benefit plans for all or specific groups of staff, depending on the plans.  The cost of these benefits are
                              actuarially determined on an annual basis using the projected benefit method pro-rated on services, the
                              government borrowing rate  and management’s best estimate of expected costs and the period of benefit coverage.
                              At March 31, 2013, these plans have net accrued liability of $52,952 (2012 - $54,994).  This liability is included in
                              employee future benefits.  The expense recorded in these financial statements is $3,573.
                              The Ministry also participates in two multi-employer Long Term Disability Income Continuance Plans.  At
                              March 31, 2013, the Bargaining Unit Plan reported an actuarial surplus of $51,717 (2012 - surplus of $9,136) and the
                              Management, Opted Out and Excluded Plan reported an actuarial surplus of $18,327 (2012 - surplus of $10,454).
                              The expense for these two plans is limited to the employer’s annual contributions for the year.

---PDF PAGE 44---
40                                                             Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                    EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


               Note 16       Derivative Contracts and Related Credit Risk                                                                                       (in thousands)

                             The Ministry uses derivative contracts to improve investment return and to manage interest and currency risks.
                             Derivative contracts have credit risks that could expose the Ministry to potential losses.  Credit risk for derivative
                             contracts is the risk that the counterparty will not pay its obligation when it comes due.
                             The following is a summary of the fair values and maturity schedules of the Ministry’s derivative contracts by type,
                             contracts being segregated by favourable and unfavourable position.  Derivatives in a favourable position have
                             positive fair values which represent amounts owed to the Ministry by counterparties.

                                                                                          Maturity                      Contract             Fair Values
                                                                            Under          1 to 3          Over         Notional     Favourable    Unfavourable
                                                                             1 Year         Years         3 Years       Amount         Position      Position

                             Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts                 100%              —              —    $   230,984    $    12,076    $    11,893
                             Interest Rate Swap Contracts                          —              —          100%             735             —              76

                             Total 2013                                                                               $   231,719    $    12,076    $    11,969


               Note 17       Adjustment to Net Assets                                                                                                           (in thousands)

                             Effective April 1, 2012, the Ministry changed its policy for recording capital transfers and restricted capital
                             contributions.  Previously, capital transfers and restricted capital contributions were recorded as revenue when the
                             tangible capitals assets were acquired or constructed.  As a result of this policy change, capital transfers and
                             restricted capital contributions are recorded as deferred revenue upon receipt and recognized as revenue over the
                             useful life of the capital assets based on relevant stipulations by the transferring government, donors and other
                             contributors.  This policy has been adopted retroactively without restatement of comparatives.  As a result, the
                             opening net assets have decreased by $1,125,909.

               Note 18       Subsequent Event                                                                                                                   (in thousands)

                             Effective April 1, 2013, the responsibility for Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions was transferred to the Ministry of
                             Health.
                             The Ministry’s financial statements at March 31, 2013 include:

                                               2013

                             Assets              49,846
                             Liabilities         12,014
                             Net Assets          37,832
                             Revenues            88,543
                             Expenses            93,084


               Note 19       Comparative Figures

                             Certain 2012 figures have been reclassified to conform to the 2013 presentation.


               Note 20       Approval of Consolidated Financial Statements

                             The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Deputy Minister and the Senior Financial Officer.

---PDF PAGE 45---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                         Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                        41
                               Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements


            Schedule 1         Consolidated Revenues                                                                                                                         (in thousands)

                               for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                   2013            2012
                                                                                                                                  Actuals         Actuals
                                                                                                                                                (Restated Note 3)
                               Government Transfers

                                   Government of Alberta Grants
                                      Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund                                                        $     37,570    $     36,643
                                      Access to the Future Fund                                                                      51,245          49,656
                                      Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund                               42,500          41,500
                                      Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research Endowment Fund                                79,050          75,950
                                      Alberta Innovates Corporations                                                                  3,835           8,942
                                      Post-Secondary Institutions                                                                  167,479         175,811
                                                                                                                                   381,679         388,502

                                   Federal and Other Government Grants
                                      Knowledge Infrastructure Program                                                                   —           24,420
                                      Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                           259,519         322,291
                                      Other                                                                                           4,175           3,864
                                                                                                                                   263,694         350,575

                               Investment Income
                                   Interest on Student Loans Issued                                                                  11,072          10,250
                                   Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                              106,084         107,637
                                   Other                                                                                              1,047             933
                                                                                                                                   118,203         118,820

                               Premiums, Fees and Licences
                                   Apprenticeship Services                                                                            6,642           4,789
                                   Licence Fees                                                                                         140             695
                                   Other                                                                                                610              53
                                                                                                                                      7,392           5,537

                               Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                                                     1,036,985        988,839

                               Sales, Rentals and Services                                                                         644,318         661,631

                               Donations, Grants and Contributions                                                                 375,697         430,630

                               Other Revenue
                                   Refunds of Expenditure                                                                             3,949           3,218
                                   Miscellaneous                                                                                      1,847           5,236
                                                                                                                                      5,796           8,454

                                                                                                                               $  2,833,764    $  2,952,988

---PDF PAGE 46---
42                                                                     Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                              EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


             Schedule 2          Consolidated Expenses Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                                                                          (in thousands)

                                                                                       2013             2012
                                                                                      Actual           Actual
                                                                                                     (Restated Note 3)

                                 Grants                                            $    439,898     $   475,862
                                 Salaries, Wages and Employee Benefits                3,258,858       3,103,143
                                 Supplies and Services                                1,319,599       1,301,372
                                 Financial Transactions and Other (1)                    22,552            4,620
                                 Interest on Long-term Debt                              34,638           34,935
                                 Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets                447,833         426,162

                                                                                   $  5,523,378     $ 5,346,094

                                 (1)   This amount includes write-downs and losses on tangible capital assets of $19,978 (2012 - $4,253).


             Schedule 3          Consolidated Reconciliation of Budget with Actuals                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                         2013
                                                                                                                    Actual without       Actual                         Actual with
                                                                                                                      SUCH Sector     SUCH Sector                       SUCH Sector
                                                                                                    Authorized       and Innovates   and Innovates                     and Innovates
                                                                                                      Budget         Corporations     Corporations   Adjustments        Corporations

                                 Revenues
                                    Government Transfers
                                        Government of Alberta Grants                                $   208,540     $    210,365     $  2,979,444     $(2,808,130)     $   381,679
                                        Federal and Other Government Grants                                3,528            4,175         283,060          (23,541)        263,694
                                    Investment Income                                                     12,418          10,059          115,928           (7,784)        118,203
                                    Premiums, Fees and Licences                                            9,680            9,582               —           (2,190)           7,392
                                    Tuition and Non-Credit Courses                                            —                —        1,036,985               —        1,036,985
                                    Sales, Rentals and Services                                               —                36         653,459           (9,177)        644,318
                                    Donations, Grants and Contributions                                       —                —          344,975           30,722         375,697
                                    Other Revenue                                                          5,192            5,702           1,665           (1,571)           5,796

                                 Total Revenues                                                     $   239,358     $    239,919     $  5,415,516     $(2,821,671)     $ 2,833,764

                                 Expenses
                                    Grants                                                          $ 2,778,910     $  2,774,076     $    337,827     $(2,672,005)     $   439,898
                                    Supplies and Services                                                 73,916          67,217        1,271,931          (19,549)      1,319,599
                                    Salaries, Wages and Employee Benefits                                 96,564          89,337        3,154,277           15,244       3,258,858
                                    Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets                                4,747            5,016         431,951           10,866         447,833
                                    Financial Transactions and Other                                         203              226          53,649            3,315          57,190

                                 Total Expenses                                                     $ 2,954,340     $  2,935,872     $  5,249,635     $(2,662,129)     $ 5,523,378

---PDF PAGE 47---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                      Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                    43


           Schedule 4         Consolidated Related Party Transactions                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                              Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Province of
                              Alberta’s financial statements.  Related parties also include management in the Ministry.
                              The Ministry and its employees paid or collected certain taxes and fees set by regulation for permits, licences and
                              other charges.  These amounts were incurred in the normal course of business, reflect charges applicable to all users,
                              and have been excluded from this schedule.
                              The Ministry had the following transactions with related parties which are recorded on the Consolidated Statement
                              of Operations and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at the amount of consideration agreed upon
                              between the related parties:

                                                                                   Other Entities
                                                                                2013           2012
                                                                                            (Restated Note 3)
                              Revenues
                                 Grants                                     $   340,308    $    350,304
                                 Other                                          137,572         147,189

                                                                            $   477,880    $    497,493

                              Expenses – Directly Incurred
                                 Grants                                     $      3,576   $      5,890
                                 Other Services                                  84,892          92,908

                                                                            $    88,468    $     98,798

                              Receivables from                              $    19,470    $     15,701

                              Payables to                                   $    32,458    $     46,336

                              Deferred Revenue                              $   350,334    $    168,288

                              Debt to Related Parties                       $   681,686    $    672,592

                              Contractual Obligations                       $      7,531   $      7,345

                              The above transactions do not include support service arrangement transactions disclosed in Schedule 5.
                              The Ministry also had the following transactions with related parties for which no consideration was exchanged.  The
                              amounts for these related party transactions are estimated based on the costs incurred by the service provider to
                              provide the service.  These amounts are not recorded in the financial statements.  Accommodation, Legal expenses
                              and Shared Service costs incurred by others are disclosed in Schedule 5.

                                                                                               2013           2012
                                                                                                           (Restated Note 3)
                              Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                 Accommodation                                             $     25,245    $    24,216
                                 Legal                                                              743            851
                                 Air Transportation Services / Executive Vehicle                    133            115
                                 Internal Audit                                                     280            151
                                 Shared Services                                                  5,331          4,319
                                 GOA Learning Centre                                                 54              40

                                                                                           $     31,786    $    29,692

---PDF PAGE 48---
44                                                                    Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                           EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


            Schedule 5          Consolidated Allocated Costs                                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                      2013                                             2012
                                                                                                                        Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                                                                                                 Accommodation       Shared           Legal           Total            Total
                                                                                                 Expenses (1)        Costs (2)     Services (3)    Services (4)     Expenses        Expenses
                                                                                                                                                                                   (Restated Note 3)
                                Program
                                   Public Post-Secondary Institutions                            $  4,999,033     $         —     $         —     $         —     $  4,999,033     $ 4,793,735
                                   Alberta Innovates Corporations                                     158,445          17,161               —               —          175,606         174,763
                                   Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                       2,055               —               —               —             2,055           1,737
                                   Department
                                       Support for Adult Learning                                     205,276            2,016              —                65        207,357         240,451
                                       Apprenticeship Delivery                                         39,523            2,193              —                96         41,812          33,921
                                       Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                       17,318               —               —               —           17,318          17,713
                                       Research and Innovation Capacity                                 8,044              307              —              102            8,453         11,069
                                       Technology Commercialization                                    10,711              372              —                94         11,177          11,872
                                       Economic Competitiveness                                        35,288              818              —                57         36,163          20,012
                                       Workforce Strategies                                            19,884            1,300              —               —           21,184          52,909
                                       Ministry Support Services                                       27,801            1,078           5,331             329          34,539          35,993

                                                                                                 $  5,523,378     $    25,245     $      5,331    $        743    $  5,554,697     $ 5,394,175

                                (1)   Expenses – Directly Incurred as per Consolidated Statement of Operations.
                                (2)   Costs are as shown for Accommodation on Schedule 4 and allocated to participating entities and by proportion of full-time equivalent staff.
                                (3)   Shared Services costs, as shown on Schedule 4, are allocated only to Ministry Support Services because the services are related to Ministry
                                     support functions.
                                (4)   Costs are as shown for Legal Services on Schedule 4 and allocated by estimated costs incurred by each program.

            Schedule 6          Consolidated Cash and Cash Equivalents                                                                                                           (in thousands)
                                Cash and Cash Equivalents include deposits in the Consolidated Cash Investment Trust Fund (CCITF) of the Province
                                of Alberta.
                                The CCITF is managed with the objective of providing comparative interest income to depositors while maintaining
                                appropriate security and liquidity of depositors’ capital.
                                The portfolio is comprised of high quality, short-term securities with a maximum term to maturity of 120 days.
                                At March 31, 2013, securities held by the Fund have an average effective yield of 1.14% (2012 - 1.16%) per annum.
                                Due to the short-term nature of CCITF investments, the carrying value approximates fair value.

                                                                    2013             2012
                                                                     Cost            Cost

                                Cash (1)                         $   382,635     $   491,420
                                Cash Equivalents (2)                 802,046         787,712

                                                                 $ 1,184,681     $ 1,279,132

                                (1)   Cash includes deposits in CCITF.
                                (2)   Cash Equivalents include money market funds, short-term notes and Treasury bills.

---PDF PAGE 49---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                            Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                           45


            Schedule 7          Consolidated Portfolio Investments                                                                                                                 (in thousands)

                                                                                                               2013                             2012
                                                                                                  Value at Cost     Fair Value     Value at Cost     Fair Value

                                Interest-Bearing Securities (1)
                                    Deposits and Short-term Securities                            $    780,127     $   780,397     $    697,061     $   696,949
                                    Bonds and Mortgages                                              1,174,523       1,203,412        1,265,487       1,298,487
                                    Floating Rate Notes                                                 88,054         141,170           96,531         135,219
                                                                                                     2,042,704       2,124,979        2,059,079       2,130,655

                                Equities
                                    Canadian Equities                                                  655,779         769,091          504,236         568,589
                                    Foreign Equities                                                   766,830         907,491          713,942         761,131
                                                                                                     1,422,609       1,676,582        1,218,178       1,329,720

                                Inflation Sensitive and Alternative Investments
                                    Real Estate Funds                                                   52,586           57,015          50,441           50,734
                                    Other Investments                                                   67,881           67,620          67,572           67,572
                                                                                                       120,467         124,635          118,013         118,306

                                                                                                  $  3,585,780     $ 3,926,196     $  3,395,270     $ 3,578,681

                                (1)   Interest-bearing securities reported at March 31, 2013 have an average market yield of 1.92% (2012 - 2.54%) per annum.
                                Following is the maturity structure based on principal amount:

                                                                            2013            2012

                                       Under 1 year                             44%              43%
                                       1 to 5 years                             30%              31%
                                       6 to 10 years                            12%              10%
                                       11 to 20 years                             2%             10%
                                       Over 20 years                            12%               6%

                                                                               100%             100%

---PDF PAGE 50---
46                                                                      Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                               EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


             Schedule 8          Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements

                                 Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education

                                 Funds and Agencies
                                     Access to the Future Fund
                                     Alberta Enterprise Corporation

                                 Public Post-Secondary Institutions

                                     Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                                        Athabasca University
                                        University of Alberta
                                        University of Calgary
                                        University of Lethbridge

                                     Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions
                                        Grant MacEwan University
                                        Mount Royal University

                                     Polytechnical Institutions
                                        Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
                                        Southern Alberta Institute of Technology

                                     Comprehensive Community Institutions
                                        Bow Valley College
                                        Grande Prairie Regional College
                                        Keyano College
                                        Lakeland College
                                        Lethbridge College
                                        Medicine Hat College
                                        NorQuest College
                                        Northern Lakes College
                                        Olds College
                                        Portage College
                                        Red Deer College

                                     Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions
                                        Alberta College of Art + Design
                                        The Banff Centre

                                 Alberta Innovates Corporations
                                     Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions
                                     Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions
                                     Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions
                                     Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures

---PDF PAGE 51---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                   Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                     47


                      Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education
                      Financial Statements
                      March 31, 2013                                                                                 Audited Information
                      Independent Auditor’s Report
                      Statement of Operations
                      Statement of Financial Position
                      Statement of Cash Flows
                      Notes to the Financial Statements
                      Schedules to the Financial Statements

                        1    Revenues

                        2    Credit or Recovery

                        3    Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object

                        4    Budget

                        5    Lapse/Encumbrance

                        6    Comparison of Actual and Budget

                        7    Lottery Fund Estimates

                        8    Salary and Benefits Disclosure

                        9    Related Party Transactions

                       10    Allocated Costs

                       11    Funding Provided to Post-Secondary Institutions and Research Entities

---PDF PAGE 52---
48                                                          Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013








                           Independent Auditor’s Report


                           To the Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education


                           Report on the Financial Statements
                           I have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education,
                           which comprise the statement of financial position as at March 31, 2013, and the statements of operations and cash
                           flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
                           Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
                           Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
                           Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary
                           to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
                           error.
                           Auditor’s Responsibility
                           My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted my audit in
                           accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply with ethical
                           requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
                           are free from material misstatement.
                           An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
                           statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
                           material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments,
                           the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial
                           statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
                           expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also includes evaluating the
                           appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management,
                           as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
                           I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                           Opinion
                           In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Department
                           of Enterprise and Advanced Education as at March 31, 2013, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the
                           year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.




                           original signed by
                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           June 7, 2013
                           Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 53---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                            Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                                 49
                                  Statement of Operations

                                  for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                                       (in thousands)
                                                                                                                   2013                      2012
                                                                                                        Budget (1)         Actual           Actual
                                                                                                         (Schedule 4)                    (Restated Note 3)
                                  Revenues (Schedule 1)
                                     Government Transfers
                                         Government of Alberta Transfers                              $    157,543     $    159,120      $   154,093
                                         Federal and Other Government Grants                                  2,900            4,175           28,199
                                     Investment Income                                                      13,900           11,073            10,250
                                     Premiums, Fees and Licences                                              9,045            9,582            7,550
                                     Other Revenue                                                            4,525            5,736            4,479
                                                                                                           187,913          189,686          204,571

                                  Expenses – Directly Incurred (Note 2(b) and Schedule 10)
                                     Program (Schedules 3 and 6)
                                         Ministry Support Services                                          37,868           35,480            31,273
                                         Support for Adult Learning                                      2,489,848        2,421,984        2,360,111
                                         Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                      76,000           75,917          255,602
                                         Apprenticeship Delivery                                            39,851           42,183            34,056
                                         Research and Innovation Capacity                                  150,982          152,773          148,244
                                         Technology Commercialization                                      123,799          118,229          119,212
                                         Economic Competitiveness                                           18,832           20,143            18,568
                                         Workforce Strategies                                               54,015           51,939            51,287
                                         Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                          20,500           17,318            17,713
                                                                                                         3,011,695        2,935,966        3,036,066

                                  Net Operating Results                                               $(2,823,782)     $(2,746,280)      $(2,831,495)

                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.
                                  (1)   Budget numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the
                                       Government Organization Act, on May 8, May 24, and July 11, 2012.
                                  Statement of Financial Position

                                  as at March 31, 2013                                                                                                                                    (in thousands)
                                                                                                          2013             2012

                                                                                                                        (Restated Note3)
                                  Assets
                                     Cash                                                             $     15,737     $       1,056
                                     Accounts Receivable (Note 4)                                           71,713          109,246
                                     Loans Receivable (Note 5)                                             861,170          594,132
                                     Tangible Capital Assets (Note 6)                                       26,163           24,680

                                                                                                      $    974,783     $    729,114

                                  Liabilities
                                     Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities (Note 7)                $     32,449     $     28,234
                                     Deferred Revenue                                                           689              507
                                                                                                            33,138           28,741

                                  Net Assets
                                     Net Assets at Beginning of Year                                       700,373          456,485
                                     Net Operating Results                                              (2,746,280)      (2,831,495)
                                     Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                        2,987,552        3,075,383
                                     Net Assets at End of Year                                             941,645          700,373

                                                                                                      $    974,783     $    729,114

                                  Contractual Obligations (Note 8)
                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 54---
50                                                                     Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                                  Statement of Cash Flows

                                  for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                                        (in thousands)
                                                                                                                            2013              2012

                                                                                                                                          (Restated Note 3)
                                  Operating Transactions
                                     Net Operating Results                                                              $(2,746,280)     $(2,831,495)
                                     Non-cash Items included in Net Operating Results
                                         Amortization                                                                           5,016            4,260
                                         Provision for Future Cost of Student Loans Issued                                      3,530           57,785
                                         Student Loan Valuation Adjustments                                                    (3,781)          (2,838)
                                         Provision for Vacation Pay                                                               784               (96)
                                         Write-off of Tangible Capital Assets                                                      59               —
                                                                                                                          (2,740,672)      (2,772,384)
                                     Decrease (Increase) in Accounts Receivable                                               37,533           (88,302)
                                     Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                            3,431             (186)
                                     Increase (Decrease) in Deferred Revenue                                                      182                (5)
                                  Cash Applied to Operating Transactions                                                  (2,699,526)      (2,860,877)

                                  Capital Transactions
                                     Acquisition of Tangible Capital Assets                                                    (6,558)          (4,832)
                                  Cash Applied to Capital Transactions                                                         (6,558)          (4,832)

                                  Investing Transactions
                                     Loans Receivable
                                         Student Loan Disbursements                                                         (340,131)        (267,830)
                                         Student Loan Repayments                                                              73,344            55,106
                                  Cash Applied to Investing Transactions                                                    (266,787)        (212,724)

                                  Financing Transactions
                                     Net Financing Provided from General Revenues                                          2,987,552        3,075,383
                                  Cash Provided by Financing Transactions                                                  2,987,552        3,075,383

                                  Increase (Decrease) in Cash                                                                 14,681            (3,050)

                                  Cash at Beginning of Year                                                                     1,056            4,106

                                  Cash at End of Year                                                                   $     15,737     $       1,056

                                  The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 55---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                            51
                            Notes to the Financial Statements

                            March 31, 2013


                Note 1      Authority and Purpose

                            The Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education operates under the authority of the Government
                            Organization Act, Chapter G-10, Revised Statutes of Alberta 2000.
                            In support of Alberta’s vision, Enterprise and Advanced Education’s purpose is to build a resilient economy and a
                            thriving society by engaging Albertans in learning, innovation, and entrepreneurship.

                Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices

                            These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.
                     (a)    Reporting Entity
                            The reporting entity is the Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education, which is part of the Ministry of
                            Enterprise and Advanced Education and for which the Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education is accountable.
                            Other entities accountable to the Minister are the Access to the Future Fund, Alberta Enterprise Corporation, Alberta
                            Innovates corporations and Public Post-Secondary Institutions.  The activities of these organizations are not included
                            in these financial statements.
                            The Ministry Annual Report provides a more comprehensive accounting of the financial position and results of the
                            Ministry’s operations for which the Minister is accountable.
                            All departments of the Government of Alberta operate within the General Revenue Fund (the Fund).  The Fund is
                            administered by the President of Treasury Board and Minister of Treasury Board and Finance.  All cash receipts of
                            departments are deposited into the Fund and all cash disbursements made by departments are paid from the Fund.
                            Net Financing provided from (for) General Revenues is the difference between all cash receipts and all cash
                            disbursements made.
                     (b)    Basis of Financial Reporting
                            Revenue Accounting Policy
                            All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services have not
                            been provided by year-end is recorded as deferred revenue.
                            Government Transfers
                            Transfers from the Government of Alberta, federal and other governments are referred to as government transfers.
                            Government transfers and the associated externally restricted investment income are recorded as deferred revenue
                            if the terms for use of the transfer, or the terms along with the department’s actions and communications as to the
                            use of the transfer, create a liability.  These transfers are recognized as revenue as the terms are met and, when
                            applicable, the department complies with its communicated use of the transfer.
                            All other government transfers, without terms for the use of the transfer, are recorded as revenue when the
                            department is eligible to receive the funds.
                            Credit or Recovery
                            Credit or Recovery initiatives provide a basis for authorizing spending.  Credits or Recoveries are shown in the details
                            of the Government Estimates for a supply vote.  If budgeted revenues are not fully realized, spending is reduced by
                            an equivalent amount.  If actual Credit or Recovery amounts exceed budget, the department may, with the approval
                            of the Treasury Board Committee, use the excess to fund additional expenses of the program.  Schedule 2 discloses
                            information on the department’s Credit or Recovery initiatives.
                            Expenses
                            Directly Incurred
                            Directly incurred expenses are those costs the department has primary responsibility and accountability for, as
                            reflected in the government’s budget documents.

---PDF PAGE 56---
52                                                             Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                       EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


                   Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                              In addition to program operating expenses such as salaries and supplies, etc., directly incurred expenses also
                              include:

                                 amortization of tangible capital assets,

                                 pension costs, which are the cost of employer contributions for current service of employees during the year, and

                                 valuation adjustments which include changes in the valuation allowances used to reflect financial assets at their
                                   net recoverable or other appropriate value.  For the department, valuation adjustments represent the change in
                                   management’s estimate of future payments arising from obligations relating to student loans and employee
                                   vacation pay.
                              Grants are recognized as expenses when authorized and eligibility criteria (if any) are met.
                              Incurred by Others
                              Services contributed by other entities in support of the department operations are not recognized and are disclosed
                              in Schedule 9 and allocated to programs in Schedule 10.
                              Assets
                              Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                              for consumption in the normal course of operations.  Financial assets of the department are limited to cash and
                              financial claims, such as advances to and receivables from other organizations, employees, students and other
                              individuals.
                              Loans receivable are recorded at cost net of the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy and the
                              allowance for repayment assistance.
                              Assets acquired by right are not included.
                              Tangible capital assets of the department are recorded at historical cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over
                              the estimated useful lives of the assets.  The threshold for capitalizing new systems development is $250,000 and the
                              threshold for major systems enhancements is $100,000.  The threshold for all other tangible capital assets is $5,000.
                              Amortization is only charged if the tangible capital asset is in use.
                              Liabilities
                              Liabilities are recorded to the extent that they represent the present obligations as a result of events and
                              transactions occurring prior to the end of the fiscal year.  The settlement of liabilities will result in sacrifice of
                              economic benefits in the future.
                              Net Assets
                              Net assets represent the difference between the carrying value of assets held by the department and its liabilities.
                              Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards require a “net debt” presentation for the statement of financial
                              position in the summary financial statements of governments.  Net debt presentation reports the difference
                              between financial assets and liabilities as “net debt” or “net financial assets” as an indicator of the future revenues
                              required to pay for past transactions and events.  The department operates within the government reporting entity,
                              and does not finance all its expenditures by independently raising revenues.  Accordingly, these financial statements
                              do not report a net debt indicator.
                              Measurement Uncertainty                                                                                                                                                                                                        (in thousands)
                              Measurement uncertainty exists when there is a variance between the recognized or disclosed amount and another
                              reasonably possible amount.
                              The areas subject to measurement uncertainty are:

                                 the allowance for impaired loans amounting to $75,567 (2012 - $58,117),
                                 the allowance for loan subsidy amounting to $35,230 (2012 - $32,161) and

                                 the allowance for repayment assistance amounting to $2,088 (2012 - $1,562).
                              The department has made certain estimates in the following areas:

                                 Recovery and default rates in the determination of the allowance for impaired loans.
                                 Student loan amortization periods in the determination of the allowance for loan subsidy.

                                 Future loan amounts approved for repayment assistance and loan forgiveness rates in the determination of the
                                   allowance for repayment assistance.
                              Changes in these estimates could materially impact the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy
                              and the allowance for repayment assistance.

---PDF PAGE 57---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                  Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                 53


                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                             Valuation of Financial Assets and Liabilities
                             Fair value is the amount of consideration agreed upon in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable,
                             willing parties who are under no compulsion to act.
                             The fair values of Cash, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities are estimated to approximate
                             their carrying values because of the short-term nature of these instruments.
                             The fair values of Loans Receivable are not reported as there is no organized financial market for all of the
                             instruments and it is not practicable within constraints of timeliness or cost to estimate the fair values with sufficient
                             reliability.
                             Government Endowment Funds for Research and Scholarships
                             The Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research Endowment Fund operates under the Alberta Research and
                             Innovation Act for the purpose of supporting medical research.  The Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering
                             Research Endowment Fund also operates under the Alberta Research and Innovation Act for the purpose of
                             supporting science and engineering research.  The Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund operates under the Alberta
                             Heritage Scholarship Act for the purpose of investing the endowment funds to make income available for
                             scholarships.
                             The Ministry of Treasury Board and Finance controls these endowments.  However, the Department of Enterprise and
                             Advanced Education has an economic interest in the endowments as they assist in funding department programs.
                             Additional information on these endowments can be found in the financial statements for Alberta Treasury Board
                             and Finance.

                                                                                                                                                  (in thousands)
                                                                                                                               Net Assets
                                                                                                                   2013                         2012
                                                                                                       Value at Cost  Market Value   Value at Cost  Market Value

                             Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research Endowment Fund            $ 1,282,905    $ 1,436,184   $  1,255,039   $ 1,364,081
                             Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund               739,740        826,309       721,177        781,845
                             Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund                                              737,375        819,731       715,482        769,576

                                                                                                        $ 2,760,020    $ 3,082,224   $  2,691,698   $ 2,915,502


                 Note 3      Government Reorganization and Prior Period Restatement                                                                              (in thousands)
                             Government Reorganization (Effective April 1, 2012)
                             As a result of cabinet restructuring on May 8, 2012 the Department of Advanced Education and Technology was
                             restructured.  Responsibility for Economic Competitiveness was transferred from the former Ministry of Treasury
                             Board and Enterprise.  Responsibility for Workforce Strategies was transferred from the Ministry of Human Services.
                             The department was renamed as Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education.
                             Prior Period Restatement
                             Comparatives for 2012 have been restated as if the department had always been assigned with its current
                             responsibilities.
                             Net assets on March 31, 2011 are made up as follows:


                             Net assets as previously reported by the Department of Advanced Education and Technology                $   460,003
                             Transfer from the former Ministry of Treasury Board and Enterprise                                            (2,275)
                             Transfer from Ministry of Human Services                                                                      (1,243)

                             Net assets at March 31, 2011                                                                            $   456,485

---PDF PAGE 58---
54                                                             Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                     EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


                 Note 4       Accounts Receivable                                                                                                                   (in thousands)

                                                                               2013           2012
                                                                                           (Restated Note 3)
                              Government of Canada (1)                     $    68,105    $   105,485
                              Accrued Interest Receivable on Loans                1,742          1,282
                              Other                                               1,866          2,479

                                                                           $    71,713    $   109,246

                              Accounts receivable are unsecured and non-interest bearing.
                              (1)   $64,436 (2012 - $78,101) is represented by Payments Under Agreement. (Note 9)


                 Note 5       Loans Receivable                                                                                                                      (in thousands)
                                                                                              2013           2012

                              Loans Receivable                                            $   974,055    $   761,940

                                 Less:
                                 Allowance for Loan Relief Completion Payments                      —         (75,968)
                                 Allowance for Impaired Loans                                  (75,567)       (58,117)
                                 Allowance for Loan Subsidy                                    (35,230)       (32,161)
                                 Allowance for Repayment Assistance                             (2,088)        (1,562)

                                                                                          $   861,170    $   594,132

                              Under the Alberta Student Loan Program, loans are provided by the department to qualifying students on terms
                              prescribed by the Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education.
                              Loans become payable and interest is earned starting six months after students discontinue their studies or
                              graduate.  Loans are unsecured and are repayable to a maximum term of 114 months.  The interest rates on student
                              loans are a floating rate of prime or a fixed rate of prime plus 2%.
                              The loan relief completion program was replaced with a completion incentive grant effective August 1, 2012.  As a
                              result, an allowance for future loan relief completion payments is no longer required.  Loan relief completion
                              payments on Alberta Student Loans were made to students who completed their studies by July 31, 2012 and
                              assumed a total combined indebtedness of Canada and Alberta Student Loans exceeding established debt limits.
                              Loans are classified as impaired when:

                                 there is no longer reasonable assurance as to the timely collection of the full amount of principal or interest, or

                                 the borrower has failed to make payments for a period of 150 days, or
                                 interest is owing to the Province for a period of 180 days.
                              When loans are classified as impaired, interest ceases to accrue.
                              Loans receivable are stated at cost net of the allowance for impaired loans, the allowance for loan subsidy and the
                              allowance for repayment assistance.
                              The allowance for impaired loans is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be impaired.
                              The key assumptions used to determine this provision are default and recovery rates.
                              The allowance for loan subsidy is a provision that reflects the future benefit provided to students.  This benefit is a
                              result of favourable loan terms where the department does not receive interest payments over the term of the loans
                              to fully cover the department’s cost of financing the loan portfolio.  Changes in future year estimates are expensed
                              and are amortized over the estimated life of the student repayment period.
                              The allowance for repayment assistance is a provision that estimates the amount of loans receivable that will be
                              forgiven by the department through the repayment assistance program.

---PDF PAGE 59---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                           Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                                55


                   Note 6        Tangible Capital Assets                                                                                                                               (in thousands)
                                                                                                                       Computer
                                                                                                                       Hardware
                                                                                                    Equipment (1)    and Software          Total

                                 Estimated Useful Life                                                 5-10 years       3-10 years

                                 Historical Cost (2)
                                     Beginning of year (Restated Note 3)                             $         193    $     48,936     $     49,129
                                     Additions                                                                  66           6,492            6,558
                                     Disposals, including Write-downs                                           —               (59)             (59)
                                                                                                               259          55,369           55,628

                                 Accumulated Amortization
                                     Beginning of year (Restated Note 3)                                       146          24,303           24,449
                                     Amortization expense                                                       16           5,000            5,016
                                                                                                               162          29,303           29,465

                                 Net Book Value at March 31, 2013                                    $          97    $     26,066     $     26,163

                                 Net Book Value at March 31, 2012 (Restated Note 3)                  $          47    $     24,633     $     24,680

                                 (1)   Equipment includes office equipment.
                                 (2)   Historical cost included work-in-progress at March 31, 2013 totaling $9,346 (2012 – $5,273) comprised of computer software development
                                      projects.


                   Note 7        Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                                                                                                              (in thousands)

                                                                                        2013             2012
                                                                                                      (Restated Note 3)

                                 Accounts Payable                                   $       4,919    $       4,937
                                 Accrued Liabilities:
                                     Vacation                                               8,360            7,577
                                     Other                                                18,861             5,662
                                 Advances from Government of Canada                           309          10,058

                                                                                    $     32,449     $     28,234

---PDF PAGE 60---
56                                                            Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                     EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


                 Note 8       Contractual Obligations                                                                                                              (in thousands)

                              Contractual obligations are obligations of the department to others that will become liabilities in the future when
                              the terms of those contracts or agreements are met.

                                                                              2013           2012

                              Service Contracts                            $    17,323    $    21,720
                              Capital and Operating Grants                      38,522         30,635
                              Uncashed Student Loans                            11,135          7,361
                              Computer Systems Development                      17,846         18,273

                                                                           $    84,826    $    77,989

                              Estimated payment requirements for each of the next four years are as follows:

                                                            Capital and     Uncashed        Computer
                                               Service       Operating       Student        Systems
                                              Contracts       Grants          Loans       Development       Total

                              2013-14        $    12,418    $    22,046    $    11,135    $    16,806    $    62,405
                              2014-15              3,144         13,956             —             700         17,800
                              2015-16              1,735          1,680             —             340          3,755
                              2016-17                 26            840             —              —             866

                                             $    17,323    $    38,522    $    11,135    $    17,846    $    84,826


                 Note 9       Payments Under Agreement                                                                                                             (in thousands)

                              The department has entered into agreements to deliver programs that are fully funded by the Government of
                              Canada and the Provincial/Territorial (P/T) Forum of Immigration Ministers Secretariat.  Costs under these
                              agreements are incurred by the department under authority of section 25 of the Financial Administration Act.
                              Accounts Receivable includes $64,436 (2012 - $78,101) and Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities includes $309
                              (2012 - $10,058) relating to payments under agreement.
                              Government of Canada
                              Net amounts paid and (payable) under agreements on behalf of the Government of Canada:

                                                                                                                            2013          2012

                              Canadian Millennium Scholarship Foundation
                                 Canadian Millennium Scholarships                                                       $       (205)  $       (281)

                              Government of Canada
                                 Canada Study Grants                                                                            (128)          (333)
                                 Canada Access Grants                                                                            (10)            (8)
                                 Canada Student Grants                                                                       73,614         73,844
                                 French Minority Language Education and French Second Language Instruction                    4,504           4,226

                                                                                                                        $    77,775    $    77,448

                              P/T Secretariat
                              In 2008-09, a P/T Forum of Immigration Ministers Secretariat was created with the goal of enhancing P/T alignment
                              and collaboration on immigration and integration issues.  The cost of running the Secretariat is shared among
                              provinces/territories, with the exception of Quebec, which is a member holding observer status.
                              As per the Terms of Reference for the P/T Secretariat, the lead jurisdiction will be rotated every two years.
                              Commencing April 1, 2012, Alberta will host and chair this Forum until March 31, 2014.
                              The budget for the Secretariat is reviewed by the leading jurisdiction and approved by all P/Ts.  At the end of each
                              term, any surplus will be transferred to the incoming lead jurisdiction.
                              The department is the lead jurisdiction in Alberta and had incurred $206 in expenses relating to payments under
                              agreement.

---PDF PAGE 61---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                 Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                            57


               Note 10      Benefit Plans                                                                                                                   (in thousands)

                            The department participates in the multi-employer pension plans: Management Employees Pension Plan, Public
                            Service Pension Plan and Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers.  The expense for these
                            pension plans is equivalent to the annual contributions of $10,395 for the year ended March 31, 2013
                            (2012 - $9,015 restated).  Departments are not responsible for future funding of the plan deficit other than through
                            contribution increases.
                            At December 31, 2012, the Management Employees Pension Plan reported a deficiency of $303,423
                            (2011 - deficiency $517,726) and the Public Service Pension Plan reported a deficiency of $1,645,141
                            (2011 - deficiency $1,790,383), and the Supplementary Retirement Plan for Public Service Managers had a deficiency
                            of $51,870 (2011 - deficiency $53,489).
                            The department also participates in two multi-employer Long-term Disability Income Continuance Plans.  At
                            March 31, 2013, the Bargaining Unit Plan reported an actuarial surplus of $51, 717 (2012 - surplus $9,136) and the
                            Management, Opted Out and Excluded Plan an actuarial surplus of $18, 327 (2012 - surplus $10,454).  The expense
                            for these two plans is limited to the employer’s annual contributions for the year.

              Note 11       Comparative Figures

                            Certain 2012 figures have been reclassified to conform to the 2013 presentation.


               Note 12      Approval of Financial Statements

                            The financial statements were approved by the Senior Financial Officer and the Deputy Minister.

---PDF PAGE 62---
58                                                                 Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                            EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                                Schedules to the Financial Statements


            Schedule 1          Revenues                                                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                                Year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                     2013                    2012
                                                                                                                                   Budget (1)        Actual          Actual

                                                                                                                                                                   (Restated Note 3)
                                Government Transfers
                                   Government of Alberta Transfers
                                      Alberta Heritage Scholarship Fund                                                          $     35,993     $    37,570     $     36,643
                                      Alberta Heritage Science and Engineering Research Endowment Fund                                 42,500          42,500           41,500
                                      Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research Endowment Fund                                  79,050          79,050           75,950
                                                                                                                                      157,543         159,120         154,093
                                   Federal and Other Government Grants
                                      Knowledge Infrastructure Program                                                                      —               —           24,420
                                      Other                                                                                              2,900           4,175           3,779
                                                                                                                                         2,900           4,175          28,199

                                Investment Income
                                   Interest on Student Loans Issued                                                                    11,500          11,073           10,250
                                   Other                                                                                                 2,400              —               —
                                                                                                                                       13,900          11,073           10,250

                                Premiums, Fees and Licences
                                   Apprenticeship Services                                                                               6,000           6,642           4,789
                                   Fees and Licences                                                                                     3,045           2,940           2,761
                                                                                                                                         9,045           9,582           7,550

                                Other Revenue
                                   Refund of Expenditure                                                                                 2,500           3,925           3,372
                                   Other                                                                                                 2,025           1,811           1,107
                                                                                                                                         4,525           5,736           4,479

                                                                                                                                 $    187,913     $   189,686     $   204,571

                                (1)   Budget numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the
                                     Government Organization Act, on May 8, May 24, and July 11, 2012.

---PDF PAGE 63---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                              Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                                    59


             Schedule 2            Credit or Recovery                                                                                                                                         (in thousands)
                                   Year ended March 31, 2013                                                                   2013
                                                                                                                                            (Shortfall) /
                                                                                                         Authorized           Actual           Excess

                                   Information and Technology Management Services (1)                    $       2,025    $       1,025     $      (1,000)
                                   Canada Student Loan Administration (2)                                        2,900            3,407               507
                                   Apprenticeship Services (3)                                                   6,600            6,642                42
                                   Regional Development (4)                                                        667              667                —
                                   Immigration Program Development Support (5)                                     628              628                —

                                                                                                         $     12,820     $      12,369     $        (451)

                                   The revenue of each credit or recovery is included in the department’s revenue.
                                   (1)   Revenue collected from the provision of certain information and technology management services to stakeholders on a cost-recovery basis.
                                        Element 1.4
                                   (2)   Revenue received from the Government of Canada for administering Canada Student Loans and grants to Alberta students on a cost-recovery
                                        basis.  Element 2.1
                                   (3)   Fees collected for the provision of registration and assessment services to individuals seeking certification in designated trades and
                                        occupations.  As well, consulting services are provided on a cost-recovery basis to other countries and jurisdictions.  Apprenticeship technical
                                        training spaces in Alberta institutions are also provided on a cost-recovery basis to Yukon Territory, Northwest Territories and Nunavut.
                                        Element 4.2
                                   (4)   Funding from the Rural Alberta Development Fund to enhance services provided to entrepreneurs and small businesses through the Rural
                                        Alberta Business Centre pilot program. Element 7.5
                                   (5)   Revenue received from the Government of Canada Settlement Program to support the development of immigration web portals, resources
                                        and information to attract, inform and retain and integrate prospective immigrants and newcomers.  Element 8.1

             Schedule 3            Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                                                                                            (in thousands)

                                   Year ended March 31, 2013                                        2013                       2012
                                                                                         Budget (1)         Actual            Actual
                                                                                                                           (Restated Note 3)

                                   Salaries, Wages and Employee Benefits               $      95,796     $     89,308     $      80,293
                                   Supplies and Services                                      68,341           65,472            60,231
                                   Grants                                                 2,841,958        2,775,954         2,891,096
                                   Financial Transactions and Other                              203               216              186
                                   Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets                     5,397             5,016            4,260

                                                                                       $  3,011,695      $ 2,935,966      $  3,036,066

                                   (1)   Budget numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the
                                        Government Organization Act, on May 8, May 24 and July 11, 2012.

---PDF PAGE 64---
60                                                                      Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                   EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


             Schedule 4           Budget                                                                                                                                                     (in thousands)
                                  Year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                                     2012-13
                                                                                                           2012-13                           2012-13        Supplementary      Authorized
                                                                                                         Estimate (1)    Adjustment (2)       Budget          Estimate (3)       Budget

                                                                                                            (Restated)
                                  Revenues
                                      Government of Alberta Transfers                                   $    157,543      $          —     $    157,543      $          —     $    157,543
                                      Federal and Other Government Grants                                       2,900               628            3,528                —             3,528
                                      Investment Income                                                        13,900            (2,400)         11,500                 —           11,500
                                      Premiums, Fees and Licences                                               9,045               635            9,680                —             9,680
                                      Other Revenue                                                             4,525               667            5,192                —             5,192
                                                                                                             187,913               (470)        187,443                 —          187,443

                                  Expenses – Directly Incurred
                                      Programs
                                         Ministry Support Services                                             37,868               170          38,038                 —           38,038
                                         Support for Adult Learning                                        2,489,848           (87,370)       2,402,478            17,900        2,420,378
                                         Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                         76,000                —           76,000            13,000           89,000
                                         Apprenticeship Delivery                                               39,851               150          40,001                 —           40,001
                                         Research and Innovation Capacity                                    150,982                 —          150,982                 —          150,982
                                         Technology Commercialization                                        123,799                 —          123,799                 —          123,799
                                         Economic Competitiveness                                              18,832               667          19,499                 —           19,499
                                         Workforce Strategies                                                  54,015               628          54,643                 —           54,643
                                         Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                             20,500            (2,500)         18,000                 —           18,000
                                         Credit or Recovery (Shortfall) (Schedule 2)                               —               (451)            (451)               —              (451)
                                                                                                           3,011,695           (88,706)       2,922,989            30,900        2,953,889

                                  Net Operating Results                                                 $(2,823,782)      $     88,236     $(2,735,546)      $    (30,900)    $(2,766,446)

                                  Capital Investment                                                    $       4,647     $      2,221     $       6,868     $          —     $       6,868

                                  Non-Budgetary Disbursements                                           $    274,000      $      (1,451)   $    272,549      $     77,451     $    350,000

                                  (1)   Estimate numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the
                                        Government Organization Act, on May 8, May 24 and July 11, 2012.
                                  (2)   Budget adjustments were made as follows:
                                          Revenues:

                                                  $628 increase for the development of a provincial immigration web portal funded by the Government of Canada Settlement
                                                  Program.
                                                  $600 increase in revenue received for apprenticeship services provided for a fee.
                                                  $667 increase in revenue for contributions from the Rural Alberta Development Fund for the Rural Alberta Business Centre Pilot
                                                  program.
                                        Expenses:

                                                  $628, $600, $667 increases in expense offset by corresponding increases in dedicated revenue pursuant to the Financial
                                                  Administration Act section 24(2).
                                                  $84,600 decrease in Support for Adult Learning primarily due to a one-time reduction in 2012-13 to the loan remission allowance
                                                  reported under the Provision for the Future Cost of Student Loans Issued.  The remission program was replaced by completion grants
                                                  and other program enhancements implemented after Budget 2012 was tabled.
                                                  $2,400 transfer in Support for Adult Learning operating expense to equipment and inventory purchases to address a shortfall in
                                                  capital investment funding as approved by Treasury Board Committee in Third Quarter Forecast.
                                                  $2,500 decrease in Alberta Centennial Education Savings spending due to lower than anticipated demand for this program.

                                                  $650 decrease in amortization expense.
                                                  $1,451 decrease in Non-Budgetary Disbursements to cover an encumbrance from higher than anticipated student loan
                                                  disbursement in 2011-12.
                                  (3)   Supplementary Estimates were approved on March 21, 2013.

---PDF PAGE 65---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                          Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                           61


Schedule 5       Lapse/Encumbrance                                                                                                                                                 (in thousands)
                 Year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                            Adjusted
                                                                                                      Voted                        Supplementary       Voted                          Unexpended
                                                                                                   Estimate (1)    Adjustments (2)   Estimate (3)     Estimate        Actuals (4)   (Overexpended)

                 Program - Operating

                  1   Ministry Support Services
                      1.1     Minister’s Office                                                    $        586    $          —     $         —     $        586     $        623    $         (37)
                      1.2     Deputy Minister’s Office                                                      689               —               —              689              726              (37)
                      1.3     Communications                                                              1,081               —               —            1,081              991              90
                      1.4     Strategic Corporate Services                                               32,501               —               —           32,501          29,001            3,500
                      1.5     Corporate Costs                                                             2,386               —               —            2,386            2,507            (121)
                                                                                                         37,243               —               —           37,243          33,848            3,395

                  2   Support for Adult Learning
                      2.1     Program Delivery Support                                                   35,638               —            2,800          38,438          36,783            1,655
                      2.2     Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions                       1,170,387                —               —        1,170,387       1,168,657            1,730
                      2.3     Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions                           195,915                —               —          195,915         193,850            2,065
                      2.4     Comprehensive Community Institutions                                     410,774                —               —          410,774         407,754            3,020
                      2.5     Polytechnical Institutions                                               331,241                —               —          331,241         329,141            2,100
                      2.6     Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions                                  28,967               —               —           28,967          28,914               53
                      2.7     Independent Academic Institutions                                          24,383               —               —           24,383          24,472               (89)
                      2.8     Academic Health Centres                                                    21,000               —               —           21,000          21,000               —
                      2.9     Campus Alberta Innovations                                                 36,298           (2,400)             —           33,898          33,991               (93)
                      2.10    Inter-Jurisdiction Programs                                                 8,343               —               —            8,343            8,723            (380)
                      2.11    Community Education                                                        20,653               —               —           20,653          16,585            4,068
                      2.12    Other Program Support                                                      23,606               —               —           23,606          43,772          (20,166)
                      2.13    Achievement Scholarships                                                   34,950               —               —           34,950          36,240           (1,290)
                      2.14    Bursaries and Grants                                                       19,500               —          15,100           34,600          29,032            5,568
                                                                                                     2,361,655            (2,400)        17,900        2,377,155       2,378,914           (1,759)

                  3   Post-Secondary Infrastructure
                      3.1     Capital Expansion and Upgrading                                                —                —               —                —               29              (29)
                      3.2     Capital Maintenance and Renewal                                            76,000               —          13,000           89,000          75,888           13,112
                                                                                                         76,000               —          13,000           89,000          75,917           13,083

                  4   Apprenticeship Delivery
                      4.1     Apprenticeship Delivery Support                                            31,474               —               —           31,474          33,280           (1,806)
                      4.2     Apprenticeship Services                                                     6,000             600               —            6,600            6,646              (46)
                                                                                                         37,474             600               —           38,074          39,926           (1,852)

                  5   Research and Innovation Capacity
                      5.1     Program Delivery Support                                                    5,620               —               —            5,620            4,339           1,281
                      5.2     Research Capacity                                                          27,333               —               —           27,333          29,905           (2,572)
                      5.3     Grants to Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions                                16,736               —               —           16,736          17,236             (500)
                      5.4     Grants to Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions             22,100               —               —           22,100          22,100               —
                      5.5     Grants to Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions                             79,193               —               —           79,193          79,193               —
                                                                                                       150,982                —               —          150,982         152,773           (1,791)

                  6   Technology Commercialization
                      6.1     Program Delivery Support                                                    6,403               —               —            6,403            5,702             701
                      6.2     Strategic Partnerships                                                     12,042               —               —           12,042            9,524           2,518
                      6.3     Commercialization Capacity                                                  4,783               —               —            4,783            2,532           2,251
                      6.4     Transfer to Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                  2,250               —               —            2,250            2,150             100
                      6.5     Grant to Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures                            98,321               —               —           98,321          98,321               —
                                                                                                       123,799                —               —          123,799         118,229            5,570

---PDF PAGE 66---
62                                                                     Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


Schedule 5        Lapse/Encumbrance (continued)                                                                                                                                          (in thousands)
                 Year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                                 Adjusted
                                                                                                          Voted                         Supplementary       Voted                           Unexpended
                                                                                                       Estimate (1)    Adjustments (2)    Estimate (3)     Estimate        Actuals (4)    (Overexpended)

                   7  Economic Competitiveness
                      7.1      Program Development and Support                                                3,188               —                —            3,188            4,447           (1,259)
                      7.2      Alberta Economic Development Authority                                           651               —                —              651              675               (24)
                      7.3      Northern Alberta Development Council                                           2,353               —                —            2,353            2,310                43
                      7.4      Industry Development                                                           7,619               —                —            7,619            6,872              747
                      7.5      Regional Development                                                           5,021              667               —            5,688            5,839              (151)
                                                                                                            18,832               667               —           19,499           20,143              (644)

                   8  Workforce Strategies
                      8.1      Immigration Program Development and Support                                  13,774               628               —           14,402           13,812              590
                      8.2      Socio-Economic Statistics                                                        929               —                —              929              872                57
                      8.3      Labour Force Development                                                     38,467                —                —           38,467           36,526            1,941
                      8.4      Professions and Occupations                                                      845               —                —              845              729              116
                                                                                                            54,015               628               —           54,643           51,939            2,704

                   Credit or Recovery Shortfall (Schedule 2)                                                     —              (451)              —              (451)              —              (451)

                   Total                                                                              $  2,860,000     $        (956)   $     30,900     $ 2,889,944      $ 2,871,689      $     18,255

                   Lapse/(Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                                     $     18,255


                 Program - Capital Investment

                   1  Ministry Support Services
                      1.4      Strategic Corporate Services                                           $       1,217    $        (179)   $          —     $      1,038     $        668     $        370

                   2  Support for Adult Learning
                      2.1      Program Delivery Support                                                       3,000           2,400                —            5,400            4,311            1,089

                   4  Apprenticeship Delivery
                      4.1      Program Delivery Support                                                         430               —                —              430            1,579           (1,149)

                   Total                                                                              $       4,647    $      2,221     $          —     $      6,868     $      6,558     $        310

                   Lapse/(Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                                     $        310


                 Non-Budgetary Disbursements

                   2  Support for Adult Learning
                      2.16     Student Loan Servicing Cost                                            $         300    $          —     $          —     $        300     $          —     $        300
                      2.17     Student Loan Disbursements                                                  273,700            (1,451)         77,451          349,700         340,131             9,569

                   Total                                                                              $    274,000     $      (1,451)   $     77,451     $    350,000     $   340,131      $      9,869

                   Lapse/(Encumbrance)                                                                                                                                                     $      9,869

                (1)   Estimate numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the Government
                     Organization Act, on May 8, May 24 and July 11, 2012.
                (2)   Budget adjustments were made as follows:

                               $628, $600, $667 increases in expense offset by a corresponding increases in dedicated revenue pursuant to the Financial Administration Act
                               section 24(2).
                               $2,400 transfer in Support for Adult Learning operating expense to equipment and inventory purchases to address a shortfall in capital investment
                               funding as approved by Treasury Board Committee in Third Quarter Forecast.
                               $179 decrease in Equipment and Inventory Purchases to cover an encumbrance from 2011-12.
                               $1,451 decrease in Non-Budgetary Disbursements to cover an encumbrance from higher than anticipated student loan disbursement in 2011-12.
                (3)   Supplementary Estimates were approved on March 21, 2013.
                (4)   Actuals exclude non-voted amounts such as Amortization, Valuation Adjustments and Statutory amounts.

---PDF PAGE 67---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                           Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                               63


             Schedule 6          Comparison of Actual and Budget                                                                                                                       (in thousands)
                                 Year ended March 31, 2013                                                               Actual           Actual          Actual
                                                                                                     Estimate (1)        Voted         Not Voted           Total         Difference

                                 Expense by program
                                     Ministry Support Services                                       $     37,868    $     33,848     $       1,632    $     35,480     $      2,388
                                     Support for Adult Learning                                        2,489,848        2,378,914           43,070        2,421,984           67,864
                                     Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                         76,000          75,917                —           75,917                83
                                     Apprenticeship Delivery                                               39,851          39,926             2,257          42,183            (2,332)
                                     Research and Innovation Capacity                                    150,982          152,773                —          152,773            (1,791)
                                     Technology Commercialization                                        123,799          118,229                —          118,229            5,570
                                     Economic Competitiveness                                              18,832          20,143                —           20,143            (1,311)
                                     Workforce Strategies                                                  54,015          51,939                —           51,939            2,076
                                     Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                             20,500               —           17,318           17,318            3,182

                                                                                                     $ 3,011,695     $  2,871,689     $     64,277     $  2,935,966     $     75,729

                                 Expense by fiscal plan category
                                     Operating Expense                                               $ 2,930,298     $  2,795,772     $     59,261     $  2,855,033     $     75,265
                                     Capital Grants and Support                                            76,000          75,917                —           75,917                83
                                     Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets                                5,397               —             5,016            5,016             381

                                                                                                     $ 3,011,695     $  2,871,689     $     64,277     $  2,935,966     $     75,729

                                 Capital investment by program
                                     Ministry Support Services                                       $      1,217    $         668    $          —     $         668    $        549
                                     Support for Adult Learning                                             3,000            4,311               —             4,311           (1,311)
                                     Apprenticeship Delivery                                                  430            1,579               —             1,579           (1,149)

                                                                                                     $      4,647    $       6,558    $          —     $       6,558    $      (1,911)

                                 (1)   Estimate numbers have been restated to reflect the re-organization of government departments established by Orders in Council under the
                                      Government Organization Act, on May 8, May 24 and July 11, 2012.


            Schedule 7           Lottery Fund Estimates                                                                                                                                (in thousands)
                                 Year ended March 31, 2013                                               2013
                                                                                                    Lottery Fund         2013          Unexpended
                                                                                                     Estimate (1)        Actual       (Overexpended)

                                   3  Post-Secondary Infrastructure
                                      3.1      Capital Expansion and Upgrading                       $         —     $          29    $         (29)
                                      3.2      Capital Maintenance and Renewal                             76,000          75,888               112

                                                                                                     $     76,000    $     75,917     $          83

                                 (1)   The revenue of the Lottery Fund is transferred to the Department of Treasury Board and Finance on behalf of the General Revenue Fund.
                                      Having been transferred to the General Revenue Fund, these monies then become part of the department’s supply vote.  This table shows
                                      details of the initiatives within the department that are funded by the Lottery Fund and compares it to the actual results.

---PDF PAGE 68---
64                                                                       Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                   EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


             Schedule 8            Salary and Benefits Disclosure
                                   Year ended March 31, 2013                                                                            2013                                       2012
                                                                                                                                                Other
                                                                                                                           Other Cash        Non-Cash
                                                                                                        Base Salary (1)    Benefits (2)      Benefits (3)         Total            Total
                                                                                                                                                                                (Restated Note 3)

                                   Deputy Minister (4) (5)                                               $    284,242      $        920     $     82,890      $   368,052      $    343,922

                                   Executives:
                                      Advanced Learning and Community Partnerships (5)                        188,826                 —           55,001          243,827           238,842
                                      Apprenticeship and Student Aid (6)                                      178,226                 —           50,372          228,598           266,405
                                      Research and Innovation (7)                                              15,520            31,565             3,979           51,064          238,717
                                      Advanced Technology Industries                                          192,152            14,781           55,928          262,861           238,542
                                      International Partnerships (8)                                           42,136                 —           14,367            56,503                —
                                      Economic Competitiveness                                                180,163                 —           51,049          231,212           231,309
                                      Workforce Strategies                                                    181,933                 —           52,619          234,552           217,000
                                      Senior Financial Officer                                                130,148                 —           34,484          164,632           199,353
                                      Human Resources Executive Director                                      150,977                 —           41,380          192,357           180,236
                                      Chief Information Officer,                                              157,305                 —           43,571          200,876                 —
                                      Information and Technology Management (9)

                                   Prepared in accordance with Treasury Board Directive 12/98 as amended.
                                   (1)     Base salary includes regular base pay.
                                   (2)     Other cash benefits include vacation payouts and lump sum payments.  There were no bonuses paid in 2013.
                                   (3)     Other non-cash benefits include government’s share of all employee benefits and contributions or payments made on behalf of employees
                                          including pension and supplementary retirement plan, health care, health spending account, dental coverage, group life insurance, short
                                          and long term disability plans, WCB premiums (estimated), learning account items, professional memberships and tuition fees.
                                   (4)     Automobile provided, no dollar amount included in other-cash benefits.
                                   (5)     The position was occupied by two individuals at different times during the year.
                                   (6)     Includes vacation payout of $26,192 in 2012.
                                   (7)     The position was discontinued in September 2012 and was occupied in the first two months in fiscal year 2013.
                                   (8)     The position was created in September 2012 but was occupied starting January 2013.
                                   (9)     The position was not part of Executive Committee in fiscal year 2012, therefore no comparatives disclosed.

---PDF PAGE 69---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                     Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                    65


           Schedule 9         Related Party Transactions                                                                                                               (in thousands)
                              Year ended March 31, 2013
                              Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Government of
                              Alberta’s financial statements.
                              The Department and its employees paid or collected certain taxes and fees set by regulation for permits, licences
                              and other charges.  These amounts were incurred in the normal course of business, reflect charges applicable to all
                              users, and have been excluded from this schedule.
                              The Department had the following transactions with related parties which are recorded on the Statement of
                              Operations and the Statement of Financial Position at the amount of consideration agreed upon between the related
                              parties:

                                                                                                                  Other Entities
                                                                               Entities in the Ministry       Outside the Ministry
                                                                                2013           2012            2013           2012
                                                                                             (Restated Note 3)             (Restated Note 3)
                              Revenues
                                 Grants                                     $         —     $         —    $   159,120     $   154,093
                                 Other                                             2,337           2,281             —              —

                                                                            $      2,337    $      2,281   $   159,120     $   154,093

                              Expenses – Directly Incurred
                                 Grants                                     $  2,561,391    $ 2,645,214    $        748    $       850
                                 Other Services                                    2,938           3,539          5,810          5,003

                                                                            $  2,564,329    $ 2,648,753    $      6,558    $     5,853

                              Receivables from                              $        354    $      1,220   $         —     $        —

                              Payables to                                   $      8,736    $       260    $         —     $       138

                              Contractual Obligations                       $     49,082    $    31,684    $         —     $         25

                              The Department also had the following transactions with related parties for which no consideration was exchanged.
                              The amounts for these related party transactions are estimated based on the costs incurred by the service provider
                              to provide the service.  These amounts are not recorded in the financial statements.  Accommodation, Legal and
                              Shared Services expenses incurred by others are disclosed in Schedule 10.

                                                                                2013           2012

                                                                                             (Restated Note 3)
                              Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                 Accommodation                              $      8,084    $      8,509
                                 Legal                                               743            851
                                 Shared Services                                   5,331           4,319
                                 Air Transportation Services                         133            115
                                 Internal Audit                                      280            151
                                 GOA Learning Centre                                  54              40

                                                                            $     14,625    $    13,985

---PDF PAGE 70---
66                                                                    Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


           Schedule 10            Allocated Costs                                                                                                                                       (in thousands)
                                 Year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                 2013                                               2012
                                                                                                                            Expenses – Incurred by Others
                                                                                                                     Accommodation         Legal           Shared            Total            Total
                                                                                                     Expenses (1)        Costs (2)      Services (3)      Services         Expenses        Expenses

                                                                                                                                                                                           (Restated Note 3)
                                 Program
                                     Ministry Support Services                                       $     35,480     $       1,078    $         329    $       5,331    $     42,218     $     35,668
                                     Support for Adult Learning                                         2,421,983             2,016               65               —        2,424,064        2,362,361
                                     Post-Secondary Infrastructure                                         75,917                —                —                —           75,917          255,602
                                     Apprenticeship Delivery                                               42,184             2,193               96               —           44,473           36,434
                                     Research and Innovation Capacity                                     152,773               307              102               —          153,182          148,698
                                     Technology Commercialization                                         118,229               372               94               —          118,695          119,989
                                     Economic Competitiveness                                              20,143               818               57               —           21,018           20,384
                                     Workforce Strategies                                                  51,939             1,300               —                —           53,239           52,909
                                     Alberta Centennial Education Savings Plan                             17,318                —                —                —           17,318           17,713

                                                                                                     $  2,935,966     $       8,084    $         743    $       5,331    $  2,950,124     $  3,049,758

                                 (1)   Expenses – Directly Incurred as per Statement of Operations.
                                 (2)   Costs shown for Accommodations are allocated based on proportion of full-time-equivalent staff.
                                 (3)   Costs shown for Legal Services are allocated by estimated costs incurred by each program.

---PDF PAGE 71---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                         Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                                                                             67


           Schedule 11           Funding Provided to Post-Secondary Institutions and Research Entities                                                                             (in thousands)
                                 Year ended March 31, 2013                                                                              Operating Grants (1)          Grants for Infrastructure
                                                                                                                                        2013            2012             2013            2012
                                                                                                                                                     (Restated Note 3)
                                 Post-Secondary Institutions

                                    Comprehensive Academic and                    Athabasca University                              $     41,433    $     39,741     $      3,024     $      5,020
                                    Research Institutions                         University of Alberta                                 643,545          611,592           25,612          49,463

                                                                                  University of Calgary                                 475,595          461,203           15,907          63,384
                                                                                  University of Lethbridge                              102,412          102,028            1,823          11,547

                                    Baccalaureate and Applied Studies             Grant MacEwan University                              107,829          105,805            3,464            3,503
                                    Institutions                                  Mount Royal University                                  91,882          87,268            3,280            3,316

                                    Polytechnical Institutions                    Northern Alberta Institute of Technology              178,046          170,066            4,778            8,831
                                                                                  Southern Alberta Institute of Technology              158,787          151,620            2,644          56,488

                                    Comprehensive Community                       Bow Valley College                                      41,704          40,634              437          20,873
                                    Institutions                                  Grande Prairie Regional College                         46,530          44,097            1,963            4,585

                                                                                  Keyano College                                          41,923          39,516            1,491            5,057
                                                                                  Lakeland College                                        35,857          38,489            1,532            1,999
                                                                                  Lethbridge College                                      46,848          44,841              854            5,107
                                                                                  Medicine Hat College                                    33,278          31,517            1,215            2,459
                                                                                  NorQuest College                                        45,977          46,171              765            1,774
                                                                                  Northern Lakes College                                  31,860          29,504              857              867
                                                                                  Olds College                                            29,826          28,419            1,680            2,473
                                                                                  Portage College                                         23,774          22,871              716            1,174
                                                                                  Red Deer College                                        53,027          51,864            1,381            4,641

                                    Specialized Arts and Culture                  Alberta College of Art + Design                         12,599          12,390              274              798
                                    Institutions                                  The Banff Centre                                        16,444          16,119            1,499            1,516

                                    Total Public Post-Secondary Institutions                                                          2,259,176        2,175,755           75,196         254,875

                                    Independent Academic Institutions             Ambrose University College                               2,588            2,528               —               —
                                                                                  Canadian University College                              2,930            2,906               —               —
                                                                                  Concordia University College of Alberta                 11,815          11,577                —               —
                                                                                  St. Mary’s University College                            2,921            2,876               —               —
                                                                                  The King’s University College                            4,363            4,266               —               —

                                    Private Vocational Schools                    Columbia College                                             94             217               —               —

                                    Other Colleges                                Yellowhead Tribal College                                  449              136               —               —
                                                                                  Blue Quills First Nations College                          150              393               —               —
                                                                                  Maskwachees Cultural College                               474               93               —               —
                                                                                  Mikai Sto Foundation                                       243               —                —               —
                                                                                  Nechi Training, Research and Health                         —               115               —               —
                                                                                  Promotions Institute
                                                                                  Red Crow Community College                                  —               200               —               —
                                                                                  Old Sun Community College                                  592              676               —               —

                                 Total Funding Provided to Institutions                                                               2,285,795        2,201,738           75,196         254,875

                                 Research Entities                                Alberta Innovates – Energy and                          22,193          19,725                —               —
                                                                                  Environment Solutions
                                                                                  Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions                       20,236          15,567                —               —
                                                                                  Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions                    79,943          76,450                —               —
                                                                                  Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures                102,501          101,083                —               —

                                 Total Funding Provided to Research Entities                                                            224,873          212,825                —               —

                                 Total Funding Provided to Post-Secondary Institutions and Research Entities                        $ 2,510,668     $  2,414,563     $     75,196     $   254,875

                                 (1)   Includes funding to these entities from all department programs.

---PDF PAGE 72---
68                                                  Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education                       EAE Annual Report 2012-2013















                                            eae.alberta.ca/annualreports

---PDF PAGE 73---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                              Access to the Future Fund                                                  69


                      Access to the Future Fund
                      Financial Statements
                      March 31, 2013                                                                                  Audited Information
                      Independent Auditor’s Report
                      Statement of Operations
                      Statement of Financial Position
                      Statement of Cash Flows
                      Notes to the Financial Statements

---PDF PAGE 74---
70                                                                       Access to the Future Fund                                           EAE Annual Report 2012-2013








                           Independent Auditor’s Report


                           To the Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education


                           Report on the Financial Statements
                           I have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Access to the Future Fund, which comprise the
                           statement of financial position as at March 31, 2013, and the statements of operations and cash flows for the year
                           then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
                           Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
                           Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
                           Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary
                           to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
                           error.
                           Auditor’s Responsibility
                           My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted my audit in
                           accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply with ethical
                           requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
                           are free from material misstatement.
                           An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
                           statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
                           material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments,
                           the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial
                           statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
                           expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also includes evaluating the
                           appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management,
                           as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
                           I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                           Opinion
                           In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Access to
                           the Future Fund as at March 31, 2013, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended in
                           accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.




                           original signed by
                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           June 7, 2013
                           Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 75---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                    Access to the Future Fund                                                                                71
                               Statement of Operations

                               for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                            (in thousands)
                                                                                           2013                   2012
                                                                                 Budget          Actuals         Actuals

                               Revenues
                                  Government Transfers
                                      Government of Alberta Grants             $     50,997    $    51,245     $    49,656
                                  Investment Income                                     918             819             204

                                                                                     51,915         52,064          49,860

                               Expenses (Note 1)                                         —               —               —

                               Net Operating Results                           $     51,915    $    52,064     $    49,860

                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.
                               Statement of Financial Position

                               as at March 31, 2013                                                                                                                         (in thousands)
                                                                                   2013            2012

                               Assets
                                  Cash and Cash Equivalents (Note 4)           $   117,672     $    65,608

                                                                               $   117,672     $    65,608

                               Net Assets
                                  Net Assets at Beginning of Year                    65,608         15,748
                                  Net Operating Results                              52,064         49,860
                                  Net Assets at End of Year                        117,672          65,608

                                                                               $   117,672     $    65,608

                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.
                               Statement of Cash Flows
                               for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                            (in thousands)
                                                                                                   2013           2012

                               Operating Transactions
                                  Net Operating Results                                        $    52,064     $    49,860
                                  Decrease in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                   —           (1,559)
                                  Cash Generated from Operating Transactions                        52,064          48,301

                               Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents                                52,064          48,301

                               Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                         65,608          17,307

                               Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                          $   117,672     $    65,608

                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 76---
72                                                                      Access to the Future Fund                                           EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                            Notes to the Financial Statements

                            March 31, 2013


                Note 1      Authority and Purpose

                            The Access to the Future Fund (the Fund) operates under the authority of the Access to the Future Act.
                            Generally, the purpose of the Fund is to support innovation and excellence by enhancing and expanding
                            opportunities for Albertans to participate in accessible, affordable and high-quality advanced education
                            opportunities.  The Fund provides matching payments to stimulate donations for post-secondary institutions and
                            apprenticeship scholarships.  In Budget 2011, payments from the Fund were suspended for 2011-12 and 2012-13.  In
                            Budget 2013, payments from the Fund have been suspended for another three years while the program undergoes
                            review.

                Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices

                            These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.
                     (a)    Reporting Entity
                            The reporting entity is the Access to the Future Fund, which is part of the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced
                            Education and for which the Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education is accountable.  Other entities
                            accountable to the Minister are the Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education, Alberta Enterprise
                            Corporation, Alberta Innovates corporations, and the public post-secondary institutions.  The activities of these
                            organizations are not included in these financial statements.
                            The Ministry Annual Report provides a more comprehensive accounting of the financial positions and results of the
                            Ministry’s operations for which the Minister is accountable.
                     (b)    Basis of Financial Reporting
                            Revenue Accounting Policy
                            All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting. Cash received for which goods or services have not
                            been provided by year-end is recorded as deferred revenue.
                            Government Transfers
                            Transfers from the Government of Alberta, federal and other governments are referred to as government transfers.
                            The Fund adopted PS 3410 – Government Transfers effective April 1, 2012.  There was no impact to the Fund.
                            Government transfers and the associated externally restricted investment income are recorded as deferred revenue
                            if the terms for use of the transfer, or the terms along with the department’s actions and communications as to the
                            use of the transfer, create a liability.  These transfers are recognized as revenue as the terms are met and, when
                            applicable, the department complies with its communicated use of the transfer.
                            All other government transfers, without terms for the use of the transfer, are recorded as revenue when the
                            department is eligible to receive the funds.
                            Expenses
                            Grants are recognized as expenses when authorized and eligibility criteria, if any, are met.
                            Assets
                            Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                            for consumption in the normal course of operations.  Financial assets of the Fund are limited to cash transferred or
                            interest receivable from the General Revenue Fund of the Province of Alberta (General Revenue Fund).
                            Liabilities
                            Liabilities are recorded to the extent that they represent present obligations as a result of events and transactions
                            occurring prior to the end of the fiscal year.  The settlement of liabilities will result in sacrifice of economic benefits in
                            the future.

---PDF PAGE 77---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                              Access to the Future Fund                                                                        73


                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
                             Net Assets / Net Liabilities
                             Net assets/net liabilities represent the difference between the carrying value of assets held by the Fund and its
                             liabilities.
                             Canadian public sector accounting standards require a “net debt” presentation for the statement of financial position
                             in the summary financial statements of governments.  Net debt presentation reports the difference between
                             financial assets and liabilities as “net debt” or “net financial assets” as an indicator of the future revenues required to
                             pay for past transactions and events.  The Fund operates within the government reporting entity, and does not
                             finance all its expenditures by independently raising revenues.  Accordingly, these financial statements do not report
                             a net debt indicator.

                Note 3       Advanced Education Endowment                                                                                                      (in thousands)

                             The Advanced Education Endowment (the Endowment) is an account within the Alberta Heritage Savings Trust Fund
                             that was established by the Access to the Future Act.  As per section 4(7) of the Access to the Future Act, an amount
                             equal to 4.5% of the total amount allocated to the Endowment shall be paid annually from the General Revenue
                             Fund to the Fund.
                             The Endowment is inflation-proofed in accordance with section 4(6) of the Access to the Future Act and section 11 of
                             the Alberta Heritage Savings Trust Fund Act.  The amount of funding allocated to the Endowment for inflation
                             proofing is an estimate and the actual amount may not be known until after the finalization of the Alberta Heritage
                             Savings Trust Fund financial statements.  There was no change to the 2012 estimate.

                                                              2013          2012

                             Opening balance              $ 1,138,788    $ 1,103,477
                             Inflation proofing                12,527         35,311

                             Closing balance              $ 1,151,315    $ 1,138,788


                Note 4       Cash and Cash Equivalent

                             The Consolidated Cash Investment Trust Fund is managed with the objective of providing competitive interest
                             income to depositors while maintaining appropriate security and liquidity of depositors’ capital.  The portfolio is
                             comprised of high-quality short-term and mid-term fixed-income securities with a maximum term-to-maturity of
                             three years.  As at March 31, 2013, securities held by the Fund have a time-weighted rate of return of 1.3% per
                             annum (2012: 1.3% per annum).

                Note 5       Related Party Transactions                                                                                                        (in thousands)

                             Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Province of
                             Alberta’s financial statements.  Related parties also include the Department.
                             The Fund received a government transfer of $51,245 (2012 - $49,656) from the Department of Treasury Board and
                             Finance.  The amount of consideration was agreed upon between the related parties.

                Note 6       Approval of Financial Statements

                             The financial statements were approved by the Senior Financial Officer and the Deputy Minister.

---PDF PAGE 78---
74                                                         Access to the Future Fund                               EAE Annual Report 2012-2013















                                          eae.alberta.ca/annualreports

---PDF PAGE 79---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                           Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                              75


                      Alberta Enterprise Corporation
                      Financial Statements
                      March 31, 2013                                                                                 Audited Information
                      Independent Auditor’s Report
                      Statement of Financial Position
                      Statement of Operations
                      Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses
                      Statement of Cash Flows
                      Notes to the Financial Statements
                      Schedules to the Financial Statements

                        1    Expenses Directly Incurred Detailed by Object

                        2    Board/Executive Compensation

                        3    Related Party Transactions

---PDF PAGE 80---
76                                                                    Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                          EAE Annual Report 2012-2013








                           Independent Auditor’s Report


                           To the Board of Directors of Alberta Enterprise Corporation


                           Report on the Financial Statements
                           I have audited the accompanying financial statements of Alberta Enterprise Corporation, which comprise the
                           statement of financial position as at March 31, 2013, and the statements of operations, remeasurement gains and
                           losses, and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other
                           explanatory information.
                           Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements
                           Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with
                           Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary
                           to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
                           error.
                           Auditor’s Responsibility
                           My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit.  I conducted my audit in
                           accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that I comply with ethical
                           requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
                           are free from material misstatement.
                           An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
                           statements.  The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of
                           material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.  In making those risk assessments,
                           the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial
                           statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
                           expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also includes evaluating the
                           appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management,
                           as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
                           I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion.
                           Opinion
                           In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Alberta
                           Enterprise Corporation as at March 31, 2013, and the results of its operations, its remeasurement gains and losses, and
                           its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards.




                           original signed by
                           Merwan N. Saher, FCA
                           Auditor General
                           May 23, 2013
                           Edmonton, Alberta

---PDF PAGE 81---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                 Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                              77
                               Statement of Financial Position

                               as at March 31, 2013                                                                                                                        (in thousands)
                                                                                                  2013            2012

                               Assets
                                  Cash (Note 3)                                               $     62,926    $     90,333
                                  Accounts Receivable                                                   —               34
                                  Investments (Note 4)                                              35,699           9,880

                                                                                              $     98,625    $   100,247

                               Liabilities
                                  Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                    $        160    $        364
                                                                                                       160             364

                               Net Assets
                                  Accumulated Surplus                                               95,481          97,217
                                  Accumulated Remeasurement Gains                                    2,984           2,666
                                                                                                    98,465          99,883

                                                                                              $     98,625    $   100,247

                               Contractual Obligations (Note 6)
                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

                               Approved by the Board of Directors
                               original signed by                                         original signed by
                               Paul Haggis                                                Barry Heck
                               Chair, Board of Directors,                                 Chief Executive Officer (Interim),
                               Audit Committee Chair                                      Vice Chair, Board of Directors
                               Statement of Operations

                               for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                           (in thousands)
                                                                                          2013                    2012
                                                                                 Budget          Actuals         Actuals

                               Revenues
                                  Grant from Government of Alberta             $      2,250   $      2,150    $      1,587
                                  Other Revenue                                          —               27             —
                                                                                      2,250          2,177           1,587

                               Expenses - Directly Incurred (Schedule 1)
                                  Operating Costs                                     2,250          2,081           1,778
                                                                                      2,250          2,081           1,778

                               Net Operating Results                                     —               96           (191)

                               Realized Loss on Investments (Note 4)                     —           (1,832)        (1,043)

                               Net Loss                                        $         —           (1,736)        (1,234)

                               Accumulated Surplus, Beginning of Year                               97,217          98,451

                               Accumulated Surplus, End of Year                               $     95,481    $     97,217

                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 82---
78                                                                           Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                               EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                               Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses

                               for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                            (in thousands)
                                                                                                                  2013            2012

                               Accumulated Remeasurement Gains at Beginning of Year                            $      2,666   $        770

                               Unrealized Gain Attributed to:
                                  Investments                                                                          184           1,794
                                  Foreign Exchange                                                                     134             102

                               Net Remeasurement Gains for the Year                                                    318           1,896

                               Accumulated Remeasurement Gains at End of Year                                  $      2,984   $      2,666

                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.
                               Statement of Cash Flows
                               for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                            (in thousands)
                                                                                                                  2013            2012

                               Operating Transactions
                                  Net Operating Results                                                        $         96   $        (191)
                                  Decrease (Increase) in Accounts Receivable                                             34             (13)
                                  (Decrease) Increase in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities                      (204)           336
                                  Cash (Applied to) Provided by Operating Transactions                                  (74)           132

                               Investing Transactions
                                  Purchase of Investments                                                           (27,333)         (3,448)
                                  Cash Applied to Investing Transactions                                           (27,333)          (3,448)

                               Decrease in Cash                                                                    (27,407)          (3,316)

                               Cash, Beginning of Year                                                              90,333          93,649

                               Cash, End of Year                                                               $    62,926    $     90,333

                               The accompanying notes and schedules are part of these financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 83---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                          Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                  79
                            Notes to the Financial Statements

                            March 31, 2013


                Note 1      Authority and Purpose

                            The Alberta Enterprise Corporation (the Corporation) is a Provincial Corporation that operates under the authority of
                            the Alberta Enterprise Corporation Act.
                            The Alberta Enterprise Corporation was established on December 5, 2008 and is part of a strategy to encourage
                            technology commercialization and promote growth in Alberta’s venture capital industry.
                            The Corporation is exempt from Canadian federal and Alberta provincial income taxes.

                Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices                                                            (in thousands)

                            These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.
                    (a)     Reporting Entity
                            The reporting entity is the Corporation, which is part of the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education and for
                            which the Minister of Enterprise and Advanced Education is accountable.  Other entities accountable to the Minister
                            are the Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education, Access to the Future Fund, Alberta Innovates
                            Corporations, and the Public Post-Secondary Institutions.  The activities of these organizations are not included in
                            these financial statements.
                            The Ministry Annual Report provides a more comprehensive accounting of the financial positions and results of the
                            Ministry’s operations for which the Minister is accountable.
                    (b)     Basis of Financial Reporting
                            Revenue Accounting Policy
                            All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services have not
                            been provided by year-end is recorded as deferred revenue.
                            Government Transfers
                            Transfers from the Government of Alberta, federal and other governments are referred to as government transfers.
                            Government transfers and the associated externally restricted investment income are recorded as deferred revenue
                            if the terms for use of the transfer, or the terms along with the Corporation’s actions and communications as to the
                            use of the transfer, create a liability.  These transfers are recognized as revenue as the terms are met and, when
                            applicable, the Corporation complies with its communicated use of the transfer.
                            All other government transfers, without terms for the use of the transfer, are recorded as revenue when the
                            Corporation is eligible to receive the funds.
                            Expenses
                            Directly Incurred
                            Directly incurred expenses are those costs the Corporation has primary responsibility and accountability for, as
                            reflected in the government’s budget documents.  Expenses primarily include supplies and services and payments to
                            consultants.
                            Assets
                            Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future operations and are not
                            for consumption in the normal course of operations.
                            Cash is the financial asset of the Corporation.  The Corporation does not take out loans or issue equity.
                     (c)    Financial Instruments
                            Accounting Standard for Investments
                            The Corporation records investments in accordance with Public Sector Accounting Board (PSAB) Standard PS 3450 –
                            Financial Instruments and PS 2601- Foreign Currency Translation.

---PDF PAGE 84---
80                                                                      Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                            EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


                  Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)                                                       (in thousands)
                              The Corporation records investments in Limited Partnerships on a fair value basis.  Fair value is determined by the
                              Limited Partnerships based upon valuation techniques considered appropriate by the Corporation and may include
                              techniques such as discounted cash flows, prevailing market values for instruments with similar characteristics and
                              other pricing models as appropriate.  The Corporation relies upon the audited financial statements of the Limited
                              Partnerships when valuing the Corporation’s investments.
                              Accounting standards establish a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to
                              measure fair value.  The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for
                              identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3
                              measurements).  The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:
                                    Level 1    Inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
                                    Level 2    Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly,
                                                including inputs in markets that are not considered to be active.
                                    Level 3    Inputs that are unobservable.
                              Unrealized gains and losses due to changes in the fair value of investments in Limited Partnerships, and the
                              fluctuations in foreign currency rates are recorded in Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses.
                              Inputs are used in applying the various valuation techniques and broadly refer to the assumptions that market
                              participants use to make valuation decisions, including assumptions about risk.  Inputs may include price
                              information, volatility statistics, specific and broad credit data, liquidity statistics, and other factors.  An investment’s
                             level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value
                             measurement.  However, the determination of what constitutes “observable” requires significant judgment by the
                             Corporation.  The Corporation considers observable data to be that market data which is readily available, regularly
                             distributed or updated, reliable and verifiable, not proprietary, provided by multiple, independent sources that are
                             actively involved in the relevant market.  The categorization of an investment within the hierarchy is based upon the
                             pricing transparency of the investment and does not necessarily correspond to the Corporation’s perceived risk of
                             that investment.
                             The Corporation’s investments have all been classified within level 3 as the fair value is based on valuation methods
                             where inputs that are based on non-observable market data have a significant impact on the valuation.  When
                             observable prices are not available for these securities, the Limited Partnerships use one or more valuation
                             techniques (e.g. the market approach, the income approach) for which sufficient and reliable data is available.
                             Within level 3, the use of the market approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions, while the
                             use of the income approach generally consists of the net present value of the estimated future cash flows, adjusted
                             as appropriate for liquidity, credit, market and/or other risk factors.
                             As quoted market prices are not readily available for private investments, estimated fair values may not reflect
                             amounts that could be realized upon immediate sale, nor amounts that may ultimately be realized.  Accordingly, the
                             estimated fair values may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market existed
                             for these investments.
                             Liabilities
                             Liabilities are recorded to the extent that they represent present obligations as a result of events and transactions
                             occurring prior to the end of the fiscal year.  The settlement of liabilities will result in sacrifice of economic benefits in
                             the future.
                             Net Assets
                             Net assets represent the difference between the carrying value of assets held by the Corporation and its liabilities.
                             Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards require a “net debt” presentation for the statement of financial
                             position in the summary financial statements of governments.  Net debt presentation reports the difference
                             between financial assets and liabilities as “net debt” or “net financial assets” as an indicator of the future revenues
                             required to pay for past transactions and events.  The Corporation operates within the government reporting entity,
                             and does not finance any of its expenditures by independently raising revenues.  Accordingly, these financial
                             statements do not report a net debt indicator.
                             Measurement Uncertainty
                             Measurement uncertainty exists when there is a variance between the recognized or disclosed amount and another
                             reasonably possible amount.  Investments recorded at $35,699 in the financial statements are subject to
                             measurement uncertainty.
                             Measurement uncertainty exists with the determination of the fair value of the investments.  The fair value of the
                             investments are estimated by the General Partner of each fund.  The process of valuing investments for which no
                             published market exists is inevitably based on inherent uncertainties and the resulting values may differ from value
                             that would have been used had a ready market existed for the investments.

---PDF PAGE 85---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                             Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                        81


                  Note 2     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)                                                       (in thousands)
                             Risks
                             The Corporation is subject to market and liquidity risk with respect to its investment portfolio.
                             Market Risk
                             Market risk encompasses the potential for both losses and gains, and includes price risk and foreign currency risk.
                             Price risk is the risk of a potential decline in the price of an investment or an asset.  Foreign currency risk is the risk
                             that the value of an investment is affected by changes in exchange rates.
                             The Corporation’s price risk is driven primarily by volatility in its venture capital investments.  The Corporation
                             generally invests in Limited Partnerships in the initial stages of development.  Because of the inherent uncertainty of
                             valuations, estimated fair values may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready
                             market for the securities existed, and the difference could be material.
                             The value of the Corporation’s investments in Limited Partnerships denominated in foreign currencies may change
                             due to changes in exchange rates.
                             If the value of the Canadian dollar increased by 10% against the U.S. Dollar, and all other variables are held constant,
                             the potential loss in fair value to the Corporation would be approximately 3.5% of total investments (2012: 6.9%).
                             Liquidity Risk
                             Liquidity risk is the risk that a given investment or asset cannot be traded quickly enough in the market without
                             incurring a loss.
                             The Corporation’s investments are long term and highly illiquid.  There is no assurance that the Corporation will
                             ultimately realize the carrying value of the investments.
                             To manage these risks, the Corporation has established policies around the type of Limited Partnerships that it
                             invests in.  In addition, each Limited Partnership has established a target mix of investment types designed to
                             achieve the optimal returns within reasonable risk tolerance and in accordance with the Limited Partnership’s
                             investment mandate.  The Corporation does not participate in any foreign currency hedging activities.
                             The Corporation is not exposed to significant credit or interest risk.  The Corporation financial assets and liabilities are
                             generally classified and measured as follows:

                             Financial Statement Component                Measurement
                             Cash                                         Fair Value
                             Investments                                  Fair Value
                             Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities     Cost or Amortized Cost

                      (d)    Foreign Currency Translation
                             Financial assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are translated to Canadian dollars at the year-end
                             exchange rate.
                             Revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year.  Unrealized gains and losses due to
                             foreign currency fluctuations are recorded in the Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses.
                      (e)    Change in Accounting Policy
                             Effective April 1, 2012, the Corporation adopted PS 3410 Government Transfers.  This section deals with how to
                             account for and report government transfers.  There was no impact on the Corporation as a result of the adoption of
                             this section.

                 Note 3      Cash                                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                             Cash in the amount of $ 62,926 (2012 - $ 90,333) includes deposits in the Consolidated Cash Investment Trust Fund
                             (CCITF).  The CCITF is managed with the objective of providing competitive interest income to depositors while
                             maintaining appropriate security and liquidity of depositors’ capital.
                             The portfolio is comprised of high-quality short-term and mid-term fixed-income securities with a maximum
                             term-to-maturity of three years.  As at March 31, 2013, securities held by the Corporation had a time weighted return
                             of 1.2 % per annum (2012 - 1.3% per annum).  Due to the short term nature of the CCITF investments, the carrying
                             value approximates fair value.  Interest earned is returned directly to the General Revenue Fund of the Government
                             of Alberta.
                             As at March 31, 2013, the Corporation has $62,926 (2012 - $90,333) in Cash, of which $53,384 has been committed
                             for partnership capital contributions.

---PDF PAGE 86---
82                                                                           Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                EAE Annual Report 2012-2013


                  Note 4        Investments                                                                                                                                (in thousands)

                                The Government of Alberta has allocated $100,000 to the Corporation for investments in Limited Partnerships that
                                provide venture capital in knowledge-based industries.
                                The Corporation is a Limited Partner in eight (2012 - four) Limited Partnerships and $90,624 (2012 - $53,973) has
                                been committed to these Limited Partnerships.  Committed funds are paid into the Limited Partnership in amounts
                                and at times determined by the General Partner in order to meet the Limited Partnership’s funding requirements.
                               The Corporation’s disbursements to date and commitments are as follows:

                                 Chrysalix                                       Enertech                       32 Degrees
                                 Energy III      Yaletown         iNovia          Capital      Azure Capital    D.E. Fund II       Avrio        Accelerate
                                  Fund (a)      Ventures II       Fund III     Partners IV (a) Partners III (a)(S&T AIV) LP     Ventures II        Fund         2013 Total      2012 Total

Funds disbursed to
partnership for:
   Investments (b)             $      7,300    $      6,580    $      2,100    $      2,892    $      2,684    $      3,990    $      1,694    $     10,000    $     37,240    $      9,882

Remaining Commitment                  7,934           7,420           7,900          12,342           7,472           6,010           4,306              —           53,384          44,091

Total Funding Committed        $     15,234    $     14,000    $     10,000    $     15,234    $     10,156    $     10,000    $      6,000    $     10,000    $     90,624    $     53,973

                                (a)   Commitments are payable in US dollars.  Amounts above are based upon exchange rate on March 31, 2013.
                                (b)   Investments include management fees which are drawn down from the committed capital.  These fees are part of the Corporation’s capital
                                    investment in the Limited Partnerships.
                                The Corporation’s investments in Limited Partnerships are recorded on a fair value basis and include unrealized gains
                                or losses, which are reflected in the Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses.  The Corporation’s share in each
                                Limited Partnership includes contributions to the Limited Partnerships for investments.  It also includes a share of
                                gains or losses of the Limited Partnerships based as set out in the individual Limited Partnership agreements.
                               The Corporation’s investment in Limited Partnerships is as follows:

                                                                                           2013                            2012
                                                                                                Percentage                      Percentage
                                                                               Investments    Investment in    Investments    Investment in
                                                                               at Fair Value   Partnership     at Fair Value   Partnership

                               Chrysalix Energy III Fund                       $      7,845    $    10.32%     $      6,858    $    10.32%
                               Yaletown Ventures II                                   5,715         15.58%            2,391         15.65%
                               iNovia Fund III                                        2,247           9.04%             631           9.17%
                               Enertech Capital Partners IV                           2,346         28.53%               —               —
                               Azure Capital Partners III                             2,403         12.42%               —               —
                               32 Degrees D.E. Fund II (S&T AIV) LP                   3,733         99.99%               —               —
                               Avrio Ventures II                                      1,582           6.56%              —               —
                               Accelerate Fund                                        9,828         99.99%               —               —

                               Total                                           $     35,699                    $      9,880

---PDF PAGE 87---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                  Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                                               83


                    Note 4      Investments (continued)                                                                                                                     (in thousands)
                                The change in fair values of the investments in Limited Partnerships since April 1, 2012 are as follows:

                                 Chrysalix                                       Enertech                       32 Degrees
                                 Energy III      Yaletown          iNovia         Capital      Azure Capital    D.E. Fund II       Avrio        Accelerate
                                   Fund        Ventures II (b)    Fund III      Partners IV     Partners III   (S&T AIV) LP     Ventures II        Fund         2013 Total      2012 Total

Investment in Partnership,      $      6,858    $      2,391    $        631    $         —     $         —     $         —     $         —     $         —     $      9,880    $      5,579
Beginning of Year
Funds disbursed to                     1,568           3,080           1,425           2,892           2,684           3,990           1,694         10,000          27,333            3,448
Partnership for
Investments (a)
Remeasurement Gains                     (439)            168             251              (5)            271              —               72              —              318           1,896
(Losses)
Realized Gains (Losses) on              (142)             76             (60)           (541)           (552)           (257)           (184)           (172)         (1,832)         (1,043)
Investments

Investment in Partnership,      $      7,845    $      5,715    $      2,247    $      2,346    $      2,403    $      3,733    $      1,582    $      9,828    $    35,699     $      9,880
End of Year

Cost of Partnership             $      7,300    $      6,580    $      2,075    $      2,892    $      2,684    $      3,990    $      1,694    $    10,000     $    37,215     $      9,882
Investment

                                (a)   Amounts include management fees paid by Limited Partnerships to General Partners.  Management fees are recovered from the Corporation
                                    as part of capital in accordance with the Limited Partnership agreements.
                                (b)   Realized Gains (Losses) on Investments includes $355 realized gains due to allocation of contributed surplus from a partner that defaulted on
                                    cash calls during the year.


                  Note 5        Valuation of Financial Assets and Liabilities

                                Fair value is the amount of consideration agreed upon in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable,
                                willing parties who are under no compulsion to act.
                                The fair values of Cash, and Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities are estimated to approximate their carrying
                                values, because of the short term nature of these instruments.

                  Note 6        Contractual Obligations                                                                                                                      (in thousands)

                                Contractual obligations are obligations of the Corporation to others that will become liabilities in the future when
                                the terms of those contracts are met.  The Corporation has committed funds to be paid into limited partnerships.
                                The details of the commitments are listed in Note 4.

                                                                                   2013            2012

                                Obligations under Operating Leases              $        525    $        599
                                Obligations under Service Contracts                    1,022           3,244

                                                                                $      1,547    $      3,843


                                                Operating         Service
                                                  Leases         Contracts         Total

                                2013-14         $         76    $        521    $        597
                                2014-15                   78             501             579
                                2015-16                   78              —               78
                                2016-17                   78              —               78
                                2017-18                   78              —               78
                                Thereafter               137              —              137

                                                $        525    $      1,022    $      1,547


                  Note 7        Approval of Financial Statements

                                The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors.

---PDF PAGE 88---
84                                                                          Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                               EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                               Schedules to the Financial Statements

                               for the year ended March 31, 2013


            Schedule 1         Expenses Directly Incurred Detailed by Object                                                                                              (in thousands)

                                                                                          2013                   2012
                                                                                 Budget          Actual          Actual

                               Grants and Sponsorships                        $        257    $        272    $         93
                               Payments to Consultants and Benefits                  1,206             905             929
                               Supplies and Services                                   787             904             756

                                                                              $      2,250    $      2,081    $      1,778


            Schedule 2         Board/Executive Compensation

                                                                                                          2013                                   2012
                                                                                              Other Cash     Other Non-Cash
                                                                             Compensation (1)  Benefits (2)    Benefits (3)      Total           Total

                               Chair of the Board                             $         —     $     48,400    $      2,233    $    50,633    $     48,835
                               Board Members (four)                                     —           70,217           3,288         73,505          87,536
                               Executives:
                                  Chief Executive Officer (4)                     225,172               —               —         225,172         360,000
                                  Director, Investments                           140,416           15,000              —         155,416         137,150
                                  Director, Investments                           171,500           15,000              —         186,500         113,333
                                  Director, Industry Development (5)                92,109              —               —          92,109         142,375

                               Prepared in accordance with Treasury Board Directive 12/98 as amended.
                               (1)   Base compensation is established through contractual agreements.
                               (2)   Other Cash Benefits for Board members include honoraria payments and per diem allowances.  Other cash benefits for Executives are
                                    discretionary amounts to be paid on achieving certain milestones, requiring CEO approval.
                               (3)   Other Non-cash Benefits  for Board members includes Canada Pension Plan payments.  No non-cash benefits  provided to Executives.
                               (4)   This position was occupied by two individuals at different times during the year.
                               (5)   This position was occupied until November 2012.

             Schedule 3        Related Party Transactions                                                                                                                  (in thousands)

                               Related parties are those entities consolidated or accounted for on a modified equity basis in the Government of
                               Alberta’s financial statements.  Related parties also include management of the Corporation.
                               Entities in the Ministry refers to entities consolidated in the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced Education.  Other
                               entities outside of the Ministry relate to the remaining entities consolidated at the Provincial level.
                               The Corporation had the following transactions with related parties which are recorded in the Statement of
                               Operations and the Statement of Financial Position at the amount of consideration agreed upon between the related
                               parties:

                                                                                                                     Other Entities
                                                                                Entities in the Ministry        Outside of the Ministry
                                                                                  2013            2012           2013            2012

                               Revenues

                                  Grants                                      $      2,150    $      1,587    $         —     $        —

                               Expenses – Directly Incurred

                                  Other Services                              $         42    $         41    $         62    $         60

                               Payables to                                    $           3   $        160    $         —     $        —

                               The Corporation receives financial services, such as financial reporting and transaction processing, from the
                               Department of Enterprise and Advanced Education at no charge.

---PDF PAGE 89---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                        Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                            85


                       Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                        Unaudited Information
                       Alberta Innovates Corporations
                       Public Post-Secondary Institutions
                         Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                         Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions
                         Polytechnical Institutions
                         Comprehensive Community Institutions
                         Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions

---PDF PAGE 90---
86                                                                         Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                                 Alberta Innovates Corporations
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for March 31, 2013                                                                                                                                   (in thousands)
                                                                                                       Alberta          Alberta          Alberta          Alberta
                                                                                                     Innovates –     Innovates –      Innovates –      Innovates –
                                                                                                    Bio Solutions     Energy and         Health        Technology
                                                                                                                     Environment        Solutions         Futures
                                                                                                                       Solutions                                        2013 Totals     2012 Totals (4)
                                                                                                                                                                                            (Restated)
                                 Statement of Financial Position

                                    Assets
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                    $    19,619     $     41,347     $     45,275     $     54,491     $   160,732      $   119,107
                                        Account Receivable and Other Assets                                   517              563            3,993          20,351           25,424           22,967
                                        Capital Assets                                                         —                72            1,088          29,253           30,413           26,776

                                                                                                     $    20,136     $     41,982     $     50,356     $    104,095     $   216,569      $   168,850

                                    Liabilities
                                        Account Payable and Accrued Liabilities                      $        795    $       3,230    $       1,766    $     24,017     $     29,808     $     37,091
                                        Deferred Revenue                                                    6,886          12,177           10,225           32,270           61,558           32,936
                                        Accrued Retirement Allowance                                           —                —               428               —              428            1,369
                                                                                                            7,681          15,407           12,419           56,287           91,794           71,396

                                        Net Assets                                                        12,455           26,575           37,937           47,808         124,775            97,454

                                                                                                     $    20,136     $     41,982     $     50,356     $    104,095     $   216,569      $   168,850

                                 Statement of Operations
                                    Revenue                                                          $    20,104     $     24,697     $     89,439     $    159,184     $   293,424      $   304,122
                                    Expenses                                                              16,633           18,960           75,875          154,635         266,103          277,010

                                    Net Operating Results                                            $      3,471    $       5,737    $     13,564     $      4,549     $     27,321     $     27,112

                                 Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                     $    13,262     $     35,275     $     35,481     $     35,089     $   119,107      $     92,746
                                    Cash Provided from Operating Transactions                               6,357            6,102          10,419           26,737           49,615           32,984
                                    Cash Used by Organizational Transactions                                   —               (30)            (625)          (7,335)         (7,990)          (6,623)

                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                           $    19,619     $     41,347     $     45,275     $     54,491     $   160,732      $   119,107

                                 Salary and Benefits of CEO Positions
                                    Base Salary                                                      $        239    $         250    $         319    $        344
                                    Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                      7                7              —                61
                                    Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                      76               76               61               19

                                                                                                     $        322    $         333    $         380    $        424

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.  Full audited financial
                                      statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include housing allowances, relocation benefits and lump sum payments.
                                 (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                      etc.
                                 (4)   The prior year amounts were restated due to the correction of a prior period error in Energy and Environment Solutions financial statements
                                      affecting expenses.

---PDF PAGE 91---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                                                 87
                                 Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for March 31, 2013                                                                                                                                   (in thousands)
                                                                                                    University of    University of   University of     Athabasca
                                                                                                       Alberta         Calgary        Lethbridge        University      2013 Totals      2012 Totals

                                 Statement of Financial Position

                                    Assets
                                        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                   $     17,156     $    399,399     $     18,662     $      2,915    $    438,132     $    458,479
                                        Investments                                                    1,696,984       1,126,510          160,198            37,569       3,021,261        2,819,002
                                        Account Receivable                                               122,722          100,197            8,692            1,796         233,407          258,564
                                        Inventories and Prepaid Expenses                                  13,005           28,007            2,560            5,355          48,927           50,433
                                        Capital Assets                                                 2,730,905       1,569,422          301,736            58,206       4,660,269        4,605,475
                                        Investment in Government Business Enterprises                          —            1,205               —                —             1,205           3,762

                                                                                                    $  4,580,772     $ 3,224,740      $   491,848      $   105,841     $  8,403,201     $  8,195,715

                                    Liabilities
                                        Account Payable and Accrued Liabilities                     $    194,549     $    122,070     $     13,708     $     11,682    $    342,009     $    369,491
                                        Employee Future Benefit Liabilities                              239,695          131,407           42,120           21,554         434,776          415,680
                                        Debt                                                             175,822          156,446           10,052               —          342,320          354,885
                                        Deferred Revenue                                               2,689,914       1,771,421          241,109            71,638       4,774,082        4,843,819
                                                                                                       3,299,980       2,181,344          306,989          104,874        5,893,187        5,983,875

                                        Net Assets                                                     1,280,792       1,043,396          184,859               967       2,510,014        2,211,840

                                                                                                    $  4,580,772     $ 3,224,740      $   491,848      $   105,841     $  8,403,201     $  8,195,715

                                 Statement of Operations
                                    Revenue                                                         $  1,727,799     $ 1,191,091      $   198,049      $   132,552     $  3,249,491     $  3,138,742
                                    Expenses                                                           1,702,387       1,096,616          196,775          131,800        3,127,578        3,022,305

                                    Net Operating Results                                           $     25,412     $     94,475     $      1,274     $        752    $    121,913     $    116,437

                                 Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                    $     20,925     $    382,746     $     49,666     $      5,142    $    458,479     $    595,689
                                    Cash Provided from Operating Transactions                            137,491          199,989           14,349            2,122         353,951          397,768
                                    Cash Used by Organizational Transactions                            (141,260)        (183,336)         (45,353)          (4,349)       (374,298)        (534,978)

                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                          $     17,156     $    399,399     $     18,662     $      2,915    $    438,132     $    458,479

                                 Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                    Base Salary                                                     $         529    $        454     $        365     $        390
                                    Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                    —              103                55              38
                                    Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                     643             279              169              129

                                                                                                    $       1,172    $        836     $        589     $        557

                                 (1)   Commencing April 1, 2012, the universities adopted Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS) as issued by the Public Sector
                                      Accounting Board to prepare their financial statements.  In accordance with PSA Handbook Section 2125 (First-time Adoption), the date of
                                      transition to PSAS is April 1, 2011.  Therefore the adoption of PSAS has been applied retroactively from the date of transition resulting in the
                                      restatement of prior year amounts.  Full audited financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include housing allowances, relocation benefits and lump sum payments.
                                 (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                      etc.

---PDF PAGE 92---
88                                                                         Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                  EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                                 Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for June 30, 2012                                                                                                                                    (in thousands)
                                                                                                        Grant
                                                                                                      MacEwan        Mount Royal
                                                                                                      University      University       2012 Totals    2011 Totals (4)
                                                                                                                                                          (Restated)
                                 Statement of Financial Position
                                    Current Assets                                                   $    92,383     $     34,289     $    126,672     $    149,877
                                    Long-Term Assets                                                     348,815          337,996          686,811          683,234

                                                                                                     $   441,198     $    372,285     $    813,483     $    833,111

                                    Current Liabilities                                              $    52,918     $     46,226     $     99,144     $    103,921
                                    Long-Term Liabilities                                                187,336          238,322          425,658          437,135
                                                                                                         240,254          284,548          524,802          541,056

                                    Net Assets                                                           200,944           87,737          288,681          292,055

                                                                                                     $   441,198     $    372,285     $    813,483     $    833,111

                                 Statement of Operations
                                    Revenue                                                          $   222,134     $    208,210     $    430,344     $    432,955
                                    Expenses                                                             222,394          213,899          436,293          418,393

                                    Net Operating Results                                            $       (260)   $      (5,689)   $      (5,949)   $     14,562

                                 Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                     $    59,123     $     45,062     $    104,185     $    136,164
                                    Cash Provided from (Used in) Operating Transactions                   (24,593)            (740)        (25,333)          33,994
                                    Cash Used by Organizational Transactions                              (14,194)        (16,530)         (30,724)         (65,973)

                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                           $    20,336     $     27,792     $     48,128     $    104,185

                                 Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                    Base Salary                                                      $        301    $         219
                                    Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                    11               48
                                    Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                      55               95

                                                                                                     $        367    $         362

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for not-for-profit organizations.  Full
                                      financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include housing allowances, relocation benefits and lump sum payments.
                                 (3)   Non-cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                      etc.
                                 (4)   The prior year amounts were restated due to an accounting policy change in Mount Royal University financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 93---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                 Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                                                   89
                                  Polytechnical Institutions
                                  Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                  for June 30, 2012                                                                                                                                      (in thousands)
                                                                                                       Northern         Southern
                                                                                                        Alberta          Alberta
                                                                                                      Institute of     Institute of
                                                                                                      Technology       Technology       2012 Totals     2011 Totals (4)
                                                                                                                                                            (Restated)
                                  Statement of Financial Position
                                     Current Assets                                                   $     29,351     $    249,785     $    279,136     $    313,436
                                     Long-Term Assets                                                     486,231           720,812        1,207,043        1,063,809

                                                                                                      $   515,582      $    970,597     $  1,486,179     $  1,377,245

                                     Current Liabilities                                              $     81,206     $    119,169     $    200,375     $    172,311
                                     Long-Term Liabilities                                                204,460           637,173          841,633          783,013
                                                                                                          285,666           756,342        1,042,008          955,324

                                     Net Assets                                                           229,916           214,255          444,171          421,921

                                                                                                      $   515,582      $    970,597     $  1,486,179     $  1,377,245

                                  Statement of Operations
                                     Revenue                                                          $   314,838      $    292,975     $    607,813     $    601,086
                                     Expenses                                                             302,601           282,713          585,314          566,765

                                     Net Operating Results                                            $     12,237     $     10,262     $     22,499     $     34,321

                                  Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                     Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                     $      2,054     $    284,085     $    286,139     $    221,691
                                     Cash Provided from Operating Transactions                              28,555           40,971           69,526           92,127
                                     Cash Generated (Used) by Organizational Transactions                  (24,048)         (89,139)        (113,187)         (27,679)

                                     Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                           $      6,561     $    235,917     $    242,478     $    286,139

                                  Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                     Base Salary                                                      $        294     $        245
                                     Other Cash Benefits (2)                                                   101              346
                                     Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                                     137              281

                                                                                                      $        532     $        872

                                  (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for not-for-profit organizations.  Full
                                       financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                  (2)   Other Cash Benefits include housing allowances, relocation benefits and lump sum payments.
                                  (3)   Non-Cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                       etc.
                                  (4)   The prior year amounts were restated due to an accounting policy change in SAIT financial statements.

---PDF PAGE 94---
90                                                                        Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                 EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                                 Comprehensive Community Institutions
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for June 30, 2012                                                                                                                                   (in thousands)
                                                                                                      Grande
                                                                                                       Prairie
                                                                                    Bow Valley        Regional         Keyano          Lakeland       Lethbridge      Medicine Hat       NorQuest
                                                                                      College         College          College          College         College          College          College

                                 Statement of Financial Position
                                    Current Assets                                 $     57,527     $     13,011     $    44,630     $     21,964     $     21,327     $     21,503    $     39,918
                                    Long-Term Assets                                    320,558           96,778         115,309           92,018          111,282           93,610          37,117

                                                                                   $    378,085     $   109,789      $   159,939     $    113,982     $    132,609     $   115,113     $     77,035

                                    Current Liabilities                            $     32,067     $     13,206     $    21,594     $       9,688    $     14,307     $      7,403    $     15,394
                                    Long-Term Liabilities                               264,353           65,273          99,666           66,388           72,134           64,805          28,810
                                                                                        296,420           78,479         121,260           76,076           86,441           72,208          44,204

                                    Net Assets                                           81,665           31,310          38,679           37,906           46,168           42,905          32,831

                                                                                   $    378,085     $   109,789      $   159,939     $    113,982     $    132,609     $   115,113     $     77,035

                                 Statement of Operations
                                    Revenue                                        $     80,266     $     71,529     $    76,365     $     65,282     $     82,393     $     55,651    $     77,535
                                    Expenses                                             73,182           71,810          75,032           62,947           78,932           53,269          73,230

                                    Net Operating Results                          $      7,084     $       (281)    $      1,333    $       2,335    $      3,461     $      2,382    $       4,305

                                 Statement of Changes in Financial
                                 Position
                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents,                     $      1,050     $      7,718     $    14,989     $       8,244    $      9,575     $     17,817    $     21,742
                                    Beginning of Year
                                    Cash Provided from (Used in)                          (6,169)          4,043            7,560            4,931           6,047            4,708            8,819
                                    Operating Transactions
                                    Cash Generated (Used) by                              4,195           (1,156)         13,719            (1,435)          1,952           (3,088)             164
                                    Organizational Transactions

                                    Cash and Cash Equivalents,                     $        (924)   $     10,605     $    36,268     $     11,740     $     17,574     $     19,437    $     30,725
                                    End of Year

                                 Salary and Benefits of President
                                 Positions
                                    Base Salary                                    $        217     $        284     $        222    $         251    $        275     $        201    $         258
                                    Other Cash Benefits (2)                                   69               26              79               —                13              —                50
                                    Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                     10              —                59              323               82             111               21

                                                                                   $        296     $        310     $        360    $         574    $        370     $        312    $         329

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for not-for-profit organizations.  Full
                                      financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include housing allowances, relocation benefits and lump sum payments.
                                 (3)   Non-cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                      etc.
                                 (4)   The prior year amounts were restated due to the transfer of academic programs and operations in northwest Alberta and the transfer of
                                      administrative responsibilities between various colleges.

---PDF PAGE 95---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                                                  91
                                 Comprehensive Community Institutions (continued)
                                 Summary Financial Statements (1)
                                 for June 30, 2012                                                                                                                                     (in thousands)

                                                                                     Northern
                                                                                       Lakes             Olds           Portage         Red Deer
                                                                                      College          College          College          College        2012 Totals    2011 Totals (4)
                                                                                          (4)                                                                              (Restated)
                                 Statement of Financial Position
                                     Current Assets                                 $     14,445     $      5,269     $      9,232    $       7,645    $    256,471     $    201,330
                                     Long-Term Assets                                     36,505           97,851           63,480         175,817        1,240,325        1,221,982

                                                                                    $     50,950     $   103,120      $     72,712    $    183,462     $  1,496,796     $  1,423,312

                                     Current Liabilities                            $      6,111     $     14,239     $      4,715    $     33,721     $    172,445     $    161,504
                                     Long-Term Liabilities                                28,851           65,345           53,676         106,500          915,801          883,620
                                                                                          34,962           79,584           58,391         140,221        1,088,246        1,045,124

                                     Net Assets                                           15,988           23,536           14,321          43,241          408,550          378,188

                                                                                    $     50,950     $   103,120      $     72,712    $    183,462     $  1,496,796     $  1,423,312

                                 Statement of Operations
                                     Revenue                                        $     39,925     $     53,698     $     34,522    $     92,126     $    729,292     $    729,469
                                     Expenses                                             40,084           53,381           32,891          89,253          704,011          707,367

                                     Net Income                                     $       (159)    $        317     $      1,631    $       2,873    $     25,281     $     22,102

                                 Statement of Changes in Financial
                                 Position
                                     Cash and Cash Equivalents,                     $      4,669     $      5,560     $      3,007    $       3,066    $     97,437     $    110,238
                                     Beginning of Year
                                     Cash Provided from (Used in)                          1,404               (12)          5,085          10,220           46,636          113,395
                                     Operating Transactions
                                     Cash Generated (Used) by                               (305)          (4,326)          (1,195)         (12,874)          (4,349)       (126,196)
                                     Organizational Transactions

                                     Cash and Cash Equivalents,                     $      5,768     $      1,222     $      6,897    $         412    $    139,724     $     97,437
                                     End of Year

                                 Salary and Benefits of President
                                 Positions
                                     Base Salary                                    $        168     $        202     $        178    $         241
                                     Other Cash Benefits (2)                                   44               76              —                13
                                     Non-Cash Benefits (3)                                     23               74              31               28

                                                                                    $        235     $        352     $        209    $         282

                                 (1)   Financial statements for these entities are prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for not-for-profit organizations.  Full
                                      financial statements for these entities are available on their websites.
                                 (2)   Other Cash Benefits include housing allowances, relocation benefits and lump sum payments.
                                 (3)   Non-cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                      etc.
                                 (4)   The prior year amounts were restated due to the transfer of academic programs and operations in northwest Alberta and the transfer of
                                      administrative responsibilities between various colleges.

---PDF PAGE 96---
92                                                                           Summary Subsidiary Financial Statements                                                   EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                                  Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions
                                  Summary Financial Statements
                                                                                                       for June 30, 2012 (1)             for March 31, 2013 (2)                            (in thousands)
                                                                                                           Alberta College of
                                                                                                               Art + Design                    The Banff Centre
                                                                                                           2012             2011             2013              2012

                                  Statement of Financial Position
                                     Current Assets                                                    $     10,656     $     11,299     $     11,583      $      8,038
                                     Long-Term Assets                                                        10,777           10,267          176,120          170,454

                                                                                                       $     21,433     $     21,566     $    187,703      $   178,492

                                     Current Liabilities                                               $      3,075     $       6,191    $     12,443      $     10,426
                                     Long-Term Liabilities                                                    8,938             6,481         132,921          131,931
                                                                                                             12,013           12,672          145,364          142,357

                                     Net Assets                                                               9,420             8,894          42,339            36,135

                                                                                                       $     21,433     $     21,566     $    187,703      $   178,492

                                  Statement of Operations
                                     Revenue                                                           $     21,428     $     21,507     $     57,854      $     57,755
                                     Expenses                                                                21,043           20,962           56,657            57,447

                                     Net Operating Results                                             $         385    $         545    $       1,197     $        308

                                  Statement of Changes in Financial Position
                                     Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year                      $      9,281     $       9,418    $         594     $        319
                                     Cash Provided from (Used in) Operating Transactions                        (341)             609            5,962              577
                                     Cash Generated (Used) by Organizational Transactions                        230             (746)          (6,035)            (302)

                                     Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year                            $      9,170     $       9,281    $         521     $        594

                                  Salary and Benefits of President Positions
                                     Base Salary                                                       $         238                     $         312
                                     Other Cash Benefits (3)                                                      —                                 —
                                     Non-Cash Benefits (4)                                                        38                               108

                                                                                                       $         276                     $         420

                                  (1)   Financial statements for this entity are prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for not-for-profit organizations.  Full
                                       financial statements for this entity are available on its website.
                                  (2)   Commencing April 1, 2012, The Banff Centre adopted Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS) as issued by the Public Sector
                                       Accounting Board, including the PS 4200 series of standards for government not-for-profit organizations, to prepare their financial
                                       statements.  In accordance with PSA Handbook Section 2125 (First-time Adoption), the date of transition to PSAS is April 1, 2011.  Therefore
                                       the adoption of PSAS has been applied retroactively from the date of transition resulting in the restatement of prior year amounts.  Full
                                       audited financial statements for this entity are available on its website.
                                  (3)   Other Cash Benefits include housing allowances, relocation benefits and lump sum payments.
                                  (4)   Non-cash Benefits include the employer portions of such items as pension contributions, medical and dental benefits, disability insurance,
                                       etc.

---PDF PAGE 97---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                   Other Information                                                          93


                       Other Information                                                                                 Unaudited Information
                       Endnotes
                       Statement of Remissions, Compromises and Write-offs
                       Statement of Guarantees and Indemnities
                       Contact Information

---PDF PAGE 98---
94                                                                           Other Information                                                 EAE Annual Report 2012-2013
                             Endnotes

            Endnote A        Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey
                             The Post-Secondary Graduate Outcomes Survey is conducted every other year.  Graduates of publicly funded
                             post-secondary institutions are surveyed two years after graduation.  The most recent survey was conducted January
                             to April 2012 by an independent third-party contractor.
                             The survey population was provided to the contractor from an internal source.  Graduates were surveyed by
                             telephone and Internet about their employment outcomes upon graduating, further studies undertaken, and
                             satisfaction with the overall quality of their educational experience.  Interviews were conducted with 12,891
                             graduates from parchment programs at 25 Alberta publicly funded post-secondary institutions.  A census approach
                             was used, meaning that all graduates were invited to participate rather than a random sample.  Margin of error refers
                             to the measurable sampling error that occurs when a random sample is used to estimate results of a population, and
                             is not applicable to a census.  If the same number of interviews had been completed using a random sample of
                             graduates rather than a census, the margin of error would be ±0.8 percentage points, 19 times out of 20, which is
                             comparable with previous survey cycles.
                             Satisfaction questions are based on a four-point scale.  Satisfaction rates are the combined results of the responses
                             “satisfied” and “very satisfied.”  The percentage result is calculated by dividing the total “satisfied” and “very satisfied”
                             responses by the total number of survey respondents, not including respondents who answered “don’t know” or “no
                             response.”
                             The complete survey report is available on the Ministry’s Facts and Stats webpage.

            Endnote B        Use of Confidence Intervals for Interpreting Survey Results
                             When a result is obtained by surveying a random sample of the target population (e.g. the public, graduates), there
                             is a confidence interval associated with the result, which is expressed as a percentage above and below the result
                             (e.g. ±2.5%).  A confidence interval indicates how much variation one might expect from the survey result as a
                             consequence of sampling and diversity among respondents.  This makes it possible to determine whether
                             differences in survey results over time are likely the result of sampling variations (differences falling within the
                             confidence interval or “margin of error”), or represent actual change.
                             When comparing results of survey questions over time or among respondent groups, if there is no overlap between
                             the confidence intervals of the two observed values, then the difference between the two results is considered to be
                             real 19 times out of 20.  When the confidence intervals of the two observed values do overlap, the difference is
                             attributable to sampling variation, and the difference cannot be considered real.
                             The following hypothetical examples illustrate:
                             a)   two survey results where the confidence intervals overlap: no real difference in results
                                   Where two survey results are 76% and 80%, both with a confidence interval of 2.5%, then the upper limit of the
                                 confidence interval for the 76% result is 78.5%, and the lower limit of the confidence interval of the 80% result is
                                 77.5%.  Since the confidence intervals overlap, it cannot be concluded that there is a real difference between the
                                 two survey results, as the observed difference could be due to sampling variation.
                             b)   two survey results where the confidence intervals do not overlap: a real difference in results
                                   If the two survey results are 74% (with a confidence interval of 2.5%) and 80% (also with a confidence interval of
                                 2.5%), the upper limit of the confidence interval for the 74% result is 76.5%, and the lower limit of the confidence
                                 interval of the 80% result is 77.5%.  Since the confidence intervals do not overlap, it can be concluded that there
                                 is a real difference between the two survey results, as sampling variation alone does not account for the
                                 observed difference.

---PDF PAGE 99---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                  Other Information                                                                            95

            Endnote C        Survey of Apprenticeship Graduates
                             The Survey of Apprenticeship Graduates is conducted every other year.  Field work was conducted October-
                             December  2012.  The survey population was provided to the contractor from the Apprenticeship Trade and
                             Occupation Management System (ATOMS).  Interviews were conducted with 4,073 apprentices who had graduated
                             between August 1, 2011 and July 31, 2012.
                             Respondents were contacted initially by phone or email and given an option to complete the survey online.
                             Graduates commented on the program they completed, typically a 4-year program.
                             Satisfaction questions are based on a four-point scale.  Satisfaction rates combine the “somewhat satisfied” and “very
                             satisfied” results.  The percentage result is calculated by dividing the total of “somewhat satisfied” and “very satisfied”
                             responses by the total number of survey respondents, including respondents who answered “don’t know.”
                             The confidence interval by cohort is as follows:

                                                                                                                     Completed      Confidence
                             Cohort                                                                    Population     Interviews      Interval
                             1. Graduates who attended technical training and completed on-the-job           3,824         2,184         ±1.4%
                                training requirements of their trade in the 2011-12 school year
                             2. Graduates who completed their apprenticeship program in the                  3,632         1,889         ±1.6%
                                2011-12 school year, but did not attend technical training in that year
                             Total                                                                           7,456         4,073         ±1.0%


           Endnote D         International Visa Students Registered at Alberta Post-Secondary Institutions
                             The total number of international students has been defined as the total unduplicated headcount of students who
                             require a visa to study in Canada and are physically attending a publicly funded post-secondary institution in Alberta
                             at some point during the academic year.  International students attending outside of Canada do not require visas,
                             and are therefore not included in this measure.  Additionally, Athabasca University is not a campus-based institution,
                             and as such, Athabasca University enrolments have not been included since all students are taking online courses.
                             Data for this measure are provided by institutions and stored in the Learner Enrolment Reporting System (LERS).  The
                             Banff Centre is not included in this measure as their enrolments are not reported via LERS.  See Endnote E for more
                             information on LERS.

            Endnote E        Learner Enrolment Reporting System
                             The Learner and Enrolment Reporting System (LERS) is a database used by the Ministry to track learner
                             demographics and enrolments in the post-secondary learning system. Publicly funded post-secondary institutions
                             submit their enrolment data to the Ministry.  These data are subject to a host of accountability constraints and are
                             signed off by institutional and Ministry officials once verified.  Data for Alberta’s publicly funded institutions are
                             reported in LERS for the academic year (May to April for comprehensive academic and research institutions and
                             independent academic institutions; July to June for the Alberta College of Art and Design, baccalaureate and applied
                             studies institutions, polytechnical institutions, and comprehensive community institutions).  Finalized data are
                             available in the fall for the previous academic year.  The Banff Centre does not report enrolments via LERS.

            Endnote F        Total Sponsored Research Revenue Attracted by Alberta’s Comprehensive Academic and
                             Research Institutions
                             This performance measure reflects the amount of sponsored research at the four Comprehensive Academic and
                             Research Institutions (CARIs).  The main funding sources include the provincial and federal governments, industry
                             and non-profit organizations.  Total sponsored research revenue is funding received outside of the CARIs’ base
                             operating grants and is comprised of research grants, research contracts, and research-related capital investments.
                             This performance measure reflects the research capability, capacity, and competitive standing of Alberta through
                             the success of its research universities in attracting sponsored research funding from several sources.
                             Sponsored research revenue data are collected directly from the CARIs, which submit the data using a template and
                             guidelines outlining the information required and specific instructions regarding how the revenue should be
                             reported.  The guidelines that Enterprise and Advanced Education provides to the CARIs require that the data
                             collection process is consistent with the more detailed Canadian Association of University Business Officers (CAUBO)
                             guidelines.  Thus, the CARIs are required to follow the CAUBO reporting guidelines for the appropriate year.  The
                             adherence to CAUBO guidelines improves the quality and comparability of the data across jurisdictions.  The CARIs
                             derive the data from audited financial statements and supplementary schedules.  The reported data are compiled
                             and analyzed by Enterprise and Advanced Education in the report, Research Funding at Alberta’s Comprehensive
                             Academic and Research Institutions.

---PDF PAGE 100---
96                                                                          Other Information                                                 EAE Annual Report 2012-2013

           Endnote G         Percentage of Graduate Students Studying in Priority Areas
                             The proportion of graduate students studying in priority areas of energy, life sciences, nanotechnology, and
                             information and communications technology helps show if the province has people with the right skills and
                             knowledge to drive and diversify Alberta’s economy.
                             Programs listed at the graduate level are reviewed as to whether a specialization falls within a given priority area
                             using their 4-digit CIP (Classification of Instructional Programming) code as the primary indicator.
                             Data for this measure are provided by institutions and stored in the Learner Enrolment Reporting System (LERS).  The
                             Banff Centre is not included in this measure as their enrolments are not reported via LERS.  See Endnote E for
                             information on LERS.

           Endnote H         Percentage of Canadian Venture Capital Invested in Alberta
                             Data on Canadian venture capital comes from the VCReporter    system provided by Thomson Financial, available at TM
                             www.canadavc.com.  VCReporter    is a dynamic database, allowing existing data to be continuously updated: data TM
                             can be added at a later date, providing more accurate picture of a given period.  Data for 2012 were retrieved from
                             VCReporter    on February 211, 2013 to calculate the percentage of Canadian venture capital funds invested in TM
                             Alberta’s knowledge-intensive industries.
                             The following parameters are used consistently each year so that results are comparable year to year:

                                Date: Q1, Q2, Q3, and Q4 of the calendar year in question.
                                New vs. Follow-on: All

                                Sector: Life Sciences, IT, and Other Technologies, including all subsectors within each.

                                Stage: All Early Stages (Seed, Startup, and Other Early Stages) and only Expansion in the Later Stages group.

                                Data is not collected for all other later stage deals. (i.e. Acquisition/Buyout, Turnaround, and Other Stage)

                                Deal Size Range: All
                                Investor Type: All
                             Note:   “Canadian Venture Capital” in this measure includes foreign investments.  It expresses venture capital
                                      investment in Alberta as percentage of all venture capital investment in Canada.

            Endnote I        Proportion of Albertans Aged 18-34 Participating in Post-Secondary Education
                             This measure is produced as a special tabulation for Enterprise and Advanced Education by Statistics Canada based
                             on data collected in the Labour Force Survey.
                             Statistics Canada’s Labour Force Survey (LFS) is a monthly, Canada-wide survey of a representative sample of
                             households in the provinces and territories.  Data are collected on all members of the household who are 15 years of
                             age or older.  Persons living on Indian Reserves, inmates of institutions, and full-time members of the Canadian
                             Armed Forces are excluded from the survey.
                             The Canadian sample size for the monthly Labour Force Survey was 56,026 households over the reporting period.
                             Alberta’s sample size corresponds to its share of the national population.  An average of 5,585 Alberta households
                             were surveyed each month.
                             The coefficient of variation (the standard error as a percentage of the reported result) for the estimate (Albertans
                             18-34 participating in post-secondary education: 166,800) is 2.5%.
                             Additional information on the Labour Force Survey methodology is available online in the 2012 Guide to the Labour
                             Force Survey (Catalogue no. 71-543-G).

---PDF PAGE 101---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                  Other Information                                                                            97

            Endnote J        Proportion of Albertans Aged 25-64 Who Have Completed Post-Secondary Education

                             For the purposes of this indicator, post-secondary credentials include certificates and diplomas (university,
                             vocational, trade, community college) and university degrees.  The percentage is calculated by dividing the number
                             of people in the age range with a post-secondary certificate or diploma or university degree by the total number of
                             Albertans in the same age range.
                             Data for this measure come from Statistics Canada’s Labour Force Survey.  The Labour Force Survey is a monthly
                             household survey of a sample of individuals who are representative of the civilian, non-institutionalized population
                             15 years of age or older.  It is conducted nationwide, in both the provinces and the territories.  Excluded from the
                             survey’s coverage are: persons living on reserves and other Aboriginal settlements in the provinces; full-time
                             members of the Canadian Forces and the institutionalized population.  These groups together represent an
                             exclusion of approximately 2% of the population aged 15 and over.
                             The coefficient of variation (the standard error as a percentage of the reported result) for the estimate (Albertans
                             25-64 having completed a post-secondary credential: 1,329,100) is 1.0%.
                             Additional information on the Labour Force Survey methodology is available online in the 2012 Guide to the Labour
                             Force Survey (Catalogue no. 71-543-G).

            Endnote K        Public Satisfaction Survey
                             Enterprise and Advanced Education collaborates with Education to commission an annual telephone survey of the
                             Alberta public.  The survey assesses public satisfaction with key areas of the education system.  A professional survey
                             research firm is contracted to conduct the survey, compile results and provide them to the ministries.  Results were
                             provided in the Survey Summary Report, Public/Adult Learners/Adult Non-Learner Survey, April 2013.
                             The survey instrument uses a four-point response scale: “very satisfied” / “satisfied” / “dissatisfied” / “very dissatisfied.”
                             Results presented are the combined percentages of respondents who were very satisfied/satisfied.
                             The population for this survey was the Alberta public, and the survey sample was obtained using a random listed
                             sample for Alberta by census subdivision.  There were 800 public respondents for this survey, and results for this
                             survey are accurate to within ±3.5% in the “worst-case scenario” (i.e., results measuring proportions of 50%) at the
                             95% confidence level.  For more information on confidence intervals (or “margin of error”), see Endnote B.

            Endnote L        High School Student Survey
                             Enterprise and Advanced Education collaborates with Education to commission an annual telephone survey of high
                             school students.  The survey assesses students’ satisfaction with various aspects of the education provided at their
                             school as well as with the education system as a whole.  A professional survey research firm is contracted to conduct
                             the survey, compile results and provide them to the ministries.  Results were provided in the Survey Summary Report,
                             High School Student Survey, April 2013.
                             The survey instrument uses a four-point response scale: “strongly agree” / “agree” / “disagree” / “strongly disagree.”
                             Results presented are the combined percentages of respondents who strongly agree/agree.
                             The population for this survey was Alberta high school students in grades 10, 11, and 12, and Alberta Education
                             provided the survey company a random sample stratified by geographic location.  The sample size for the survey
                             was 800 high school students, and results for this survey are accurate to within ±3.5% in the “worst-case scenario”
                             (i.e., results measuring proportions of 50%) at the 95% confidence level.  For more information on confidence
                             intervals (or “margin of error”), see Endnote B.

---PDF PAGE 102---
98                                                                          Other Information                                                EAE Annual Report 2012-2013

           Endnote M         Manufacturing and Business Service Industry Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
                             The information for this performance measure is taken from the GDP by Industry table, published by Statistics
                             Canada.
                             GDP figures for eight industries are combined in this performance measure: manufacturing; information and cultural
                             industries; professional, scientific and technical services; transportation and warehousing; arts, entertainment and
                             recreation; accommodation and food services; finance and insurance; and administrative and support, waste
                             management and remediation services.
                             GDP is the total market value of all goods and services produced during a given year.  GDP is also referred to as
                             economic output.  To avoid counting the same output more than once, GDP includes only final goods and services –
                             not those that are used to make another product.  For this performance measure, GDP is measured in real dollars.
                             Real GDP is a measure of the volume of production. To measure this concept, GDP expenditure-based components
                             are adjusted to eliminate the effect of price change.  This process is known as deflation.
                             Note: Results for this measure were previously expressed in 2002 constant dollars; however, Statistics Canada has
                             generated GDP estimates for 2012 in 2007 constant dollars.  Therefore, the current result is expressed in 2007
                             constant dollars and all previous years’ results are restated here in 2007 constant dollars.  The published target for
                             2012 was expressed in 2002 constant dollars, making the dollar values in the 2012 target and the 2012 result
                             incomparable.  Nonetheless, the percentage change expressed in the target is still comparable to the percentage
                             change in the current result.

           Endnote N         Interprovincial Rank of Alberta’s Labour Force Participation Rate
                             In this performance measure, the rate for Alberta is compared to the other nine Canadian provinces.  The
                             inter-provincial ranking is reported to assess how Alberta compares to the other provinces across the Canada.
                             Statistics Canada’s Labour Force Survey (LFS) is the primary source of statistics on employment and unemployment
                             in Canada and the provinces.  The LFS provides information on the work activities of the respondents during the
                             week containing the 15   day of the month known as the reference week.th
                             Statistics Canada’s Labour Force Survey (LFS) is a monthly, Canada-wide survey of a representative sample of
                             households in the provinces and territories.  Data are collected on all members of the household who are 15 years of
                             age or older.  Persons living on Indian Reserves, inmates of institutions, and full-time members of the Canadian
                             Armed Forces are excluded from the survey.
                             The Canadian sample size for the monthly Labour Force Survey was 56,026 households over the reporting period.
                             Alberta’s sample size corresponds to its share of the national population.  An average of 5,585 Alberta households
                             were surveyed each month.
                             The coefficient of variation (the standard error as a percentage of the reported result) for the estimate (Albertans in
                             the labour force: 2,253,500) is 1.0%.
                             Additional information on the Labour Force Survey methodology is available online in the 2012 Guide to the Labour
                             Force Survey (Catalogue no. 71-543-G).

---PDF PAGE 103---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                                    Other Information                                                                               99

            Endnote O         Interprovincial Rank of Alberta’s First Nations, Métis and Inuit Off-Reserve Labour Force
                              Participation Rate
                              In this performance measure, the rate for Alberta is compared to the other nine Canadian provinces.  The
                              inter-provincial ranking is reported to assess how Alberta compares to the other provinces across the Canada.
                              Statistics Canada’s Labour Force Survey (LFS) is the primary source of statistics on employment and unemployment
                              in Canada and the provinces.  The LFS provides information on the work activities of the respondents during the
                              week containing the 15   day of the month known as the reference week.th
                              The LFS includes a question asking if the respondent is a member of the Aboriginal Population.  The First Nations,
                              Métis and Inuit labour force (off-reserve) represents the number of people in the working age population that are
                              either employed or actively seeking employment (unemployed).  This is calculated as a 12-month average for the
                              calendar year.
                              Statistics Canada’s Labour Force Survey (LFS) is a monthly, Canada-wide survey of a representative sample of
                              households in the provinces and territories.  Data are collected on all members of the household who are 15 years of
                              age or older.  Persons living on Indian Reserves, inmates of institutions, and full-time members of the Canadian
                              Armed Forces are excluded from the survey.
                              The Canadian sample size for the monthly Labour Force Survey was 56,026 households over the reporting period.
                              Alberta’s sample size corresponds to its share of the national population.  An average of 5,585 Alberta households
                              were surveyed each month.
                              The coefficient of variation (the standard error as a percentage of the reported result) for the estimate (off-reserve
                              FMNI in labour force: 88,700) is 2.5%.
                              Additional information on the Labour Force Survey methodology is available online in the 2012 Guide to the Labour
                              Force Survey (Catalogue no. 71-543-G).
                              Note: Alberta’s ranking in 2009 changed from 3   place to a tie with New Brunswick for 2    place when results were rd                                                                                                                               nd
                              revised by Statistics Canada.  (New Brunswick’s result was revised from 70.7% to 69.9%; Alberta’s result was revised
                              from 69.8% to 69.9%.)  To remain consistent with Government of Alberta reporting of this historical result, we are
                              reporting the original ranking with the revised percentage: 3   place and 69.9%.rd



                              Statement of Remissions, Compromises and Write-offs
                              for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                  (in thousands)(in thousands)
                              The following statement has been prepared pursuant to Section 23 of the Financial Administration Act.  This
                              statement includes all remissions, compromises and write-offs made or approved during the fiscal period.


                              Remissions under Section 21 of the Financial Administration Act                                                                         $    53,765
                              Compromises under Section 22 of the Financial Administration Act                                                                                 11
                              Write-offs – Implemented Guarantees, Indemnities, Loans and Advances – Section 20 of the Student Financial Assistance Act                     1,077

                              Total remissions, compromises and write-offs                                                                                            $    54,853

                              Statement of Guarantees and Indemnities given by the Crown and Provincial Corporations
                              for the year ended March 31, 2013                                                                                                  (in thousands)(in thousands)
                              The following has been prepared pursuant to Section 75 of the Financial Administration Act.  The statement
                              summarizes the amounts of all guarantees given by the Crown through the Ministry of Enterprise and Advanced
                              Education under the Student Loan Act for the year ended March 31, 2013, the amounts paid to financial institutions
                              as a result of the guaranteed loan program, and the amounts recovered on debts owing as a result of payments
                              under guarantees.

                                                            Amount of
                                                             Guarantee      Payments       Recoveries

                              Crown Guarantees              $         —    $         44   $        541

---PDF PAGE 104---
100                                                                                         Other Information                                                             EAE Annual Report 2012-2013

                                   Contact Information
                                   Advanced Education and Technology                                                      eae.alberta.ca
                                   Entities
                                      Access to the Future Fund                                                           eae.alberta.ca/post-secondary/funding/supportsinstitutions/aff.aspx
                                      Alberta Enterprise Corporation                                                      alberta-enterprise.ca
                                      Alberta Innovates – Bio Solutions                                                   bio.albertainnovates.ca
                                      Alberta Innovates – Energy and Environment Solutions                                ai-ees.ca
                                      Alberta Innovates – Health Solutions                                                aihealthsolutions.ca
                                      Alberta Innovates – Technology Futures                                              albertatechfutures.ca
                                   Advisory Boards, Councils and Authorities
                                      Access Advisory Council                                                             eae.alberta.ca/ministry/agencies/caadvisory/aac.aspx
                                      Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training Board                                  tradesecrets.gov.ab.ca
                                      Alberta Council on Admissions and Transfer                                          acat.gov.ab.ca
                                      Alberta Research and Innovation Authority                                           aria.albertainnovates.ca
                                      Campus Alberta Quality Council                                                      caqc.gov.ab.ca
                                      Students Finance Board                                                              eae.alberta.ca/ministry/agencies/caadvisory/sfb.aspx
                                   Publicly Funded Post-Secondary Institutions
                                      Comprehensive Academic and Research Institutions
                                          University of Alberta                                                           ualberta.ca
                                          University of Calgary                                                           ucalgary.ca
                                          University of Lethbridge                                                        uleth.ca
                                          Athabasca University                                                            athabascau.ca
                                      Baccalaureate and Applied Studies Institutions
                                          Grant MacEwan University                                                        macewan.ca
                                          Mount Royal University                                                          mtroyal.ca
                                      Polytechnical Institutions
                                          Northern Alberta Institute of Technology                                        nait.ca
                                          Southern Alberta Institute of Technology                                        sait.ca
                                      Comprehensive Community Institutions
                                          Bow Valley College                                                              bowvalleycollege.ca
                                          Grande Prairie Regional College                                                 gprc.ab.ca
                                          Keyano College                                                                  keyano.ca
                                          Lakeland College                                                                lakelandcollege.ca
                                          Lethbridge College                                                              lethbridgecollege.ca
                                          Medicine Hat College                                                            mhc.ab.ca
                                          NorQuest College                                                                norquest.ab.ca
                                          Northern Lakes College                                                          northernlakescollege.ca
                                          Olds College                                                                    oldscollege.ca
                                          Portage College                                                                 portagecollege.ca
                                          Red Deer College                                                                rdc.ab.ca
                                      Specialized Arts and Culture Institutions
                                          Alberta College of Art + Design                                                 acad.ab.ca
                                          The Banff Centre                                                                banffcentre.ca
                                      Independent Academic Institutions
                                          Ambrose University College                                                      ambrose.edu
                                          Canadian University College                                                     cauc.ca
                                          Concordia University College                                                    concordia.ab.ca
                                          St. Mary’s University College                                                   stmu.ab.ca
                                          The King’s University College                                                   kingsu.ca

---PDF PAGE 105---
EAE Annual Report 2012-2013                                           Enterprise and Advanced Education
Publicly Funded Post-Secondary Institutions

Main Campuses














                                                                                                    Fort McMurray                                   Keyano College




Northern Lakes College                                                 Grouard
                                                                                              Slave Lake

Grande Prairie Regional College                            Grande Prairie                            Lac La Biche                                   Portage College
                                                                                            Athabasca                                               Athabasca University



University of Alberta                                                                      Edmonton
                                                                                                                    Vermilion                       Lakeland College
Grant MacEwan University
Northern Alberta Institute of Technology
NorQuest College                                                                                        Lacombe
Concordia University College                                                                                                                        Canadian University College

The King’s University College                                                                          Red Deer
                                                                                                                                                    Red Deer College
                                                                                                     Olds                                           Olds College
The Banff Centre                                                                       Banff

University of Calgary                                                                     Calgary

Mount Royal University
Southern Alberta Institute of Technology                                                                           Medicine Hat                     Medicine Hat College
Bow Valley College
Alberta College of Art + Design                                                                                   Lethbridge
Ambrose University College                                                                                                                          University of Lethbridge
St. Mary’s University College                                                                                                                       Lethbridge College

---PDF PAGE 106---
eae.alberta.ca/annualreports