---PDF PAGE 1---
Annual Report
2025
---PDF PAGE 2---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  1
Contents
Values, Vision and Mission    2
Land Acknowledgement    3
Accountability Statement    4
Management’s Responsibility for Reporting    4
Public Interest Disclosure Act    4
Message from the Chair of the Board of Governors and the President and CEO 5
Operational Overview    8
Goals and Performance Measures    9
     Strategic Goals    9
     Academic Priorities    9
Financial Statement Discussion Analysis    16
     Financial Highlights    16
     Revenues    17
     Expenses    18
     Capital    19
     Net Assets and Net Financial Assets    20
     Areas of Significant Financial Risk    18
Capital Plan    22     
     Type of Project and Funding Sources    22
     Project Timelines and Status    22
Financial Statements    23

---PDF PAGE 3---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  2
Alberta University of the Arts’ Values
At AUArts, we are a diverse community of critical thinkers driven by curiosity and inspired by 
imagination. We create, make, shape, explore and help emerging artists, craftspeople and designers 
find a career path while finding themselves.
Together, our students, alumni, faculty, staff, and our many collaborators transform perspectives, 
spark discussion, and ignite change. We use visual art, craft and design as powerful vehicles to 
change the world.
And that is our real masterpiece, the work that makes us P.R.O.U.D.:
PASSION We are curious and thoughtful risk takers; we celebrate our creative process.
RESPECT We build relationships based on trust and accountability; we are connected to one 
another’s success and wellness.
OPENNESS We embrace diversity and inclusivity in culture, identity and perspective; we are 
transparent, confident, approachable and welcoming.
UNIQUE We pursue excellence in our studio-based practices, and in our support for our learners, 
faculty, staff, and external partners.
DARING We are courageous and deeply committed to experimentation, free enquiry, and research.
Vision 
To inspire and empower the creative global thinkers, makers, story tellers, leaders and risk-takers of 
tomorrow for success in a diverse and inclusive community
Mission
Alberta University of the Arts is a diverse and inclusive community committed to leading education 
and research in creative practices.

---PDF PAGE 4---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  3
Land Acknowledgement
Alberta University of the Arts (AUArts) is situated on the ancestral 
land of the Siksikaitsitapi – Blackfoot Confederacy which includes 
the Siksika, Kainai, Piikani Nations and the shared territories of 
the Tsuut’ina Nation as well as the Iyarhe Nakoda-Stoney which 
includes Bearspaw, Chiniki, Good Stoney Nations and also the 
home of the Métis Nation of Districts 5 and 6. The City of Calgary 
has long been called Moh’kins’tsis by the Siksikaitsitapi, Guts’ists’i 
by the Tsuut’ina, and Wîchîspa by the Nakoda.
---PDF PAGE 5---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  4
Accountability Statement
This Alberta University of the Arts (AUArts) annual report for the year ended June 30, 2025, was 
prepared under the Board of Governors’ direction per the Fiscal Planning and Transparency Act 
and ministerial guidelines established according to the Post-Secondary Learning Act. All material 
economic, environmental or fiscal implication of which we are aware has been considered in 
preparation of this report.
Management’s Responsibility for Reporting
Alberta University of the Arts’ management is responsible for the preparation, accuracy, objectivity 
and integrity of the information contained in the Annual Report including financial statements, 
performance results, and supporting management information. Systems of internal control are 
designed and maintained by management to produce reliable information to meet reporting 
requirements. The system is designed to provide management with reasonable assurance that 
transactions are properly authorized, are executed in accordance with all relevant legislation, 
regulations and policies, reliable financial records are maintained and assets are properly accounted 
for and safeguarded. 
The Annual Report has been developed under the oversight of the institution’s Finance and Audit 
Committee, is approved by the Board of Governors, and is prepared in accordance with the Fiscal 
Planning and Transparency Act and the Post-Secondary Learning Act. 
The Auditor General of the Province of Alberta, the institution’s external auditor appointed under the 
Post-Secondary Learning Act, performs an annual independent audit of the financial statements 
which are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.
Public Interest Disclosure Act
This section presents Alberta University of the Arts’ (AUArts) disclosures made during 2024-25 according 
to the Public Interest Disclosure Act. The Act applies to provincial agencies, boards, and commissions. 
Under the Act, each agency, board, and commission is responsible for annually reporting on the number 
of disclosures received and investigated. No disclosures were reported in the year.

---PDF PAGE 6---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  5
Message from the Chair of the Board of Governors 
and the President and CEO
The fifth year of our Strategic Plan centered progress, renewed commitments, and energized 
efforts. 
Over the last year, AUArts saw leadership transitions, progress in facility and technological 
upgrades, enhanced practices in our programs, community engagement and partnerships, and 
a new cohort of alumni making impact. Notable achievements in the Strategic Plan included 
initiatives focused on future-ready skills for students and fostering creative, research and teaching 
practices for growth. Reflecting on the 2024-25 year, we recognize the accomplishments, 
opportunities, challenges and resiliency of our institution and continue our dedication as a global 
leader in art, craft and design education. 
Our total number of students enrolled was at a 12-year high, with 1,298 registered students 
across our Bachelor of Fine Arts, Bachelor of Design and Master of Fine Arts at the start of the 
academic year. While notable, our recruitment and admissions numbers for the current year 
are lower as a direct result of the international recruitment limit that continues to have financial 
implications. 
We launched a restructured Bachelor of Fine Arts, replacing our nine major areas with a single 
Studio Art major, offering students the opportunity to pursue over a dozen areas of concentration, 
while creating operational efficiencies and enhancing industry alignment. Over two thirds of 
eligible students elected to pursue this new program. A dedicated first-year curriculum for the 
Bachelor of Design was also launched, lowering entry barriers and tailoring content to program 
needs.  
We hosted conferences, 
successfully received grant 
funding, and expanded 
our reach and presence 
with community, including 
hosting the Prairie Art 
Network Institute through 
a revitalized Illingworth 
Kerr Gallery. Building on 
our steadfast commitment 
to education, our second 
annual Teaching and 
Learning Symposium 
deepened faculty expertise 
with respect to learning 
technologies, experiential 
and work-integrated 
learning, and academic 
publishing.  
207 students graduated 
from our undergraduate 
and graduate programs, 

---PDF PAGE 7---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  6
joining our alumni community of about 14,000. Initiatives to create undergraduate opportunities 
that respond to and grow with job markets of today and the future continue, including a 
proposed new Bachelor in Creative Industries degree program currently under Campus Alberta 
Quality Council (CAQC) review.  
AUArts continued its strategic efforts in operational and fiscal management to support our 
students, faculty, staff and community. In our inflationary environment coupled with lower 
International student recruitment numbers, rising student needs and a rapidly evolving job 
market, we continue to prudently budget and follow cost management practices to withstand 
uncertainty. However, without revenue generation opportunities other postsecondary institutions 
have, including land and facility ownership, alongside the constraints across the sector related to 
funding and tuition limitations, we remain in fiscal constraint.  
We recognize the constraints across our sector and society, and are committed to effectiveness, 
efficiency and sustainability operationally. As Board Chair, I was pleased to complete my first year, 
including recognizing Dr. Daniel Doz’s 15-year tenure as President, and the recruitment of Dr. Janis 
Goldie as President and CEO. Together, with our Board, leadership and community, we remain 
resilient while facing a challenging fiscal environment and are energized by our accomplishments.  
Planning and growth opportunities are closely connected to AUArts upcoming Centennial. 2026 
will mark 100 years of history and impact as a postsecondary dedicated to art, craft and design 
education. Centennial represents a year of opportunity, for sustainability, growth, progress and 
commitment with our students, alumni, partners and community. As Board Chair and President 
and CEO, we look forward to celebrating our history and advancing our future as an innovator  
and leader.  
Adrian Stimson 
Chair of the Board of Governors
Dr. Janis Goldie 
President and CEO
---PDF PAGE 8---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  7
Operational Overview 
This past year AUArts has remained steadfast in commitment to growth, innovation, and adaptability 
as a unique education provider, community builder and economic driver. AUArts is focused on 
advancing our strategic priorities to strengthen its long-term sustainability, equip our students for a 
dynamic future as professionals, and maintain a leading position in arts, craft and design education 
in Alberta, Canada and globally. Key operational highlights reflect plans focused on student skills 
and experience, sustainability and growth, and future-proofing initiatives as we prepare for our 
Centennial. 
Growth for Long Term Sustainability
A critical priority for AUArts continues to be fostering sustainable growth. This includes enrollment 
growth, increased retention, and an engaged alumni community; enhanced facilities and operations; 
research and creative initiatives; and partnerships and collaborations that advance growth and 
positionality as a unique postsecondary in Alberta. The creative industries continue to be an 
important economic driver to Calgary, Alberta and across Canada. AUArts continues to be a 
significant element of Alberta’s prosperity through the contributions of its faculty, staff, students 
and alumni, to society and economy. Its collaborations and partnerships across education, arts and 
culture and industry sectors give it deep roots in local, regional, and national communities as an 
educational leader, preferred partner, and community anchor. 
To continue to serve and attract new students and prepare them for work in Alberta’s creative or 
other industries, it is vital that AUArts develop technological modernizations as well as upgrades to 
facilities and equipment. Past enhancements to AUArts campus and facilities contributed positively 
to collaborative opportunities and ultimately contributed to growth and sustainability, including 
hosted events and conferences. 
Over the past year, AUArts renewed its focus on sustainable initiatives through partnerships and 
funded activities with the aim of improving student access and experience through teaching, 
research, and facilities support. This dedication is ongoing and will continue the year’s successful 
efforts spent revising and creating awards and scholarships, research collaboration opportunities, 
funding initiatives, faculty-led research mentorship, and diversified partnerships.
Preparing Students with Essential Future Skills
AUArts graduates contribute to the creative industries and secure careers across industries. 
As one of four postsecondary institutions focused on art, craft and design education in Canada, 
AUArts is focused on extending its reach as an educational leader in response to changes in 
society and the economy. The rapid evolution of industries requires a shift from job-specific 
training to a focus on core skills that will remain valuable across changing careers. By emphasizing 
problem-solving, adaptability, collaboration, and creative thinking, skills highlighted by the 
Conference Board of Canada’s 2019 Perspectives of Alberta Employers report commissioned by 
the Government of Alberta,  AUArts prepares students not only for today’s job market, but for the 
demands of emerging fields we may not yet envision.  
AUArts’ commitment to creative practice, research activities, teaching and learning is core to its 
mission. We support our faculty in creating, promoting and delivering a future-focused, adaptable 
learning environment, and our faculty support our students in turn. By incorporating design thinking, 
---PDF PAGE 9---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  8
collaboration, and innovative methodologies into our curriculum, we foster a learning environment 
where students become versatile, resilient, and socially engaged citizens. Our implementation 
of a more flexible and multi-disciplinary curriculum in our undergraduate degrees includes a 
strong emphasis on professional development, collaboration, and skills diversification, helping to 
future-proof students in a rapidly changing employment environment.Our increase in local and 
international partnerships further demonstrates AUArts’ dedication to working with organizations 
in the development of a vibrant creative and professional ecosystem for our students and our 
communities. 
2024-25 focused on the innovation, optimization and modernization of AUArts’ programs to 
serve today’s job student and the ever-changing labour markets and professions for which 
we prepare them. To provide the most current learning experience for our students, we have 
increased resources dedicated faculty research, creative and scholarly practice. 2024-25 was 
also an important year for ensuring the quality of student experience, as we undertook a CAQC 
Comprehensive Institutional Review, an encouraging experience where our efforts and recent 
directions were noted and appreciated.
Looking Ahead
With over 300,000 square feet of facilities dedicated to art, craft and design, 88% of students 
residing in Alberta, and an alumni community of approximately 14,000, AUArts’ future is committed to 
growth for and with our communities, constituents at our campus, across Calgary, Alberta, Canada, 
and around the globe. 2025-26 year and the year of AUArts’ Centennial is a remarkable opportunity 
to recognize and celebrate legacy, engage and re-engage with community, and enter our future as 
a global leader and impact driver in art, craft and design education. 
AUArts’ operational focus continues to emphasize strategic growth and an education that 
empowers our students to lead in a rapidly changing world. AUArts’ Centennial year offers a unique 
opportunity to build and maintain momentum for engagement and strategic growth. Our ongoing 
dedication to equipping students with vital skills in a learning environment characterized by up-to-
date facilities and award-winning faculty will be reflected in strategic initiatives and targeted funds 
development catalyzed by the AUArts Centennial.  We will continue to develop industry-focused 
curriculum that appeals to a diversified prospective student base and that emphasizes skills 
transferability, as we fulfil our commitment to prepare our students to compete and thrive in their 
chosen fields.
---PDF PAGE 10---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  9
Goals and Performance Measures 
AUArts is pleased to report progress towards the goals and priorities outlined in the University’s 
Strategic Plan* and Academic Plan* over the past year. The progress achieved in both plans 
fulfills the roles and mandates of AUArts under the Post Secondary Learning Act. Both plans 
address academic programs, teaching, learning and research, student services, partnerships and 
community engagement, and organizational environment, sustainability and performance. 
Strategic Goals
1. Align programming and curriculum to the evolving needs of students and communities
2. Enable innovation and experimentation through teaching, applied and scholarly research, 
and creative activities
3. Expand relationships with strategic partners and communities that enrich and improve 
students’ learning outcomes
4. Drive sustainable growth through revenue diversification, an engaging academic 
environment and a high-performance organization
Academic Priorities
1. Advance quality sustainable programming that prepares students for life and work beyond 
graduation. 
2. Promote research and career skills development throughout AUArts
3. Build strong relationships
4. Commit to a culture of inclusion and respect.
*Alberta University of the Arts’ 2020-2027 Strategic Plan and 2020-2027 Academic Plan can be 
found at https://www.auarts.ca/about-auarts/publications/strategic-plans
---PDF PAGE 11---
Strategic 
Goal 1 
Align Programming and curriculum to the evolving needs of students  
and communities
Strategy 2024-2025 Accomplishments
Curriculum 
and credential 
framework
• Completed self-study document and comprehensive institutional review with Campus Alberta Quality Council (CAQC). 
• Ongoing efforts with Universities Canada application process.
• Completed efforts to implement program changes for Bachelor of Fine Arts and Bachelor of Design programs. Operational and 
communications ongoing to support students, faculty and staff with transition.
• Non-credit credential policy & framework established with Academic Planning and Oversight Committee (APOC) approval. 31 
micro-credentials + 5 certificates approved.  Micro-credentials launched in April 2025 with 14 new registrations + 95 in initial 
animation micros/certificate (109 total).
• Ongoing efforts to re-engineer a Career Services Centre. Currently developing a proposal and proof of concept.
• A New undergraduate program, Bachelor of Creative Industries, was approved internally. Currently undergoing reviews with the 
Ministry of Advanced Education. 
• New concentrations in existing undergraduate programs were approved in Game Design, Photography, Animation, and Comic 
Studies. Available for students in Fall 2025.
Attract and retain 
students • Approval and availability of new Object Design and Fabrication Concentration  and new courses in the 2024-25 academic year, 
expanding programming and enrollment options. 
• Delivered two successful gallery crawl events, reaching 2680 attendees in fall and 2354 attendees in spring.
• Continued growth of the summer residency program with 31 participants, equaling a 244% increase. 
• ArtSteam has been suspended internally and with the Ministry of Advanced Education after graduating the final students. 
• Ongoing efforts to examine the reintroduction of academic upgrading and bridging, embedding upgrading components and 
language supports to aid in first year retention.
• Ongoing efforts in Phase 2 of the digital presentation studio and classrooms upgrade.
• Updated or developed articulation agreements and study exchange agreements with national and international institutions, 
including three new international study exchange agreements with Griffith University, Adelaide University and Universidad 
Autonoma de Guadalajara. Revised agreements with Red Deer Polytechnic, North Island College, Portage College, MacEwan 
University, New Brunswick College, and Medicine Hat in progress.
• Worked in collaboration with SAIT to improve the entry of information into our Student Information System to track funded 
students, along with enhancing the reports from the system to make it easier to identify students who have become ineligible 
for funding.
• Increased student access by supporting 9 additional students through a bursary top up with the Annual General Awards. 
• Centennial Scholarship Campaign targets and plan developed. Fundraising efforts ongoing.
• 3 INTL Entrance Scholarships for undergraduate students were granted.
• Ongoing efforts in internal coordination to drive retention and graduation rates, with Recruitment and Admissions, Registrar’s 
Office and Student Services and Wellness enhancing processes and streamlining communications.
• Signed 5-year agreement with reputable edtech international student platform (IPD Connect).
• Ongoing efforts in international recruitment despite challenging landscape. ApplyBoard and IDP actively promoted AUArts 
programs across their platforms, expanding visibility in key markets. Participation in 10 webinars and training sessions with 
a strong focus on outreach in China and India. Participation in National Portfolio Day (NPD) events in the U.S. continued as a 
valuable avenue.
• Successfully launched and completed a 12-month recruitment email campaign in partnership with SchoolFinder, consisting 
of 12 unique emails sent to a targeted audience of 33,861 prospective students aged 17–21 in BC, AB, SK, MB, and ON with 
expressed interest in the visual arts. The campaign achieved a strong overall open rate of 54% (18,285 opens).
• Completed implementation of Slate as the recruitment and admissions Customer Relationship Management (CRM). Final 
system adjustments and functionality are currently in progress.
• A total of 9 targeted social media campaigns were executed across 7 platforms for recruitment purposes. Campaign 
performance included 6,655,694 impressions, reached approximately 1,896,241 for a total of 69,397 clicks. 10 Calgary high 
schools participated in digital screen campaign.
• All program updates and additions are accurately reflected in recruitment materials and were utilized for campaigns. 
---PDF PAGE 12---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  11
Strategic 
Goal 1 
Align Programming and curriculum to the evolving needs of students  
and communities
Strategy 2024-2025 Accomplishments
Equity, diversity and 
inclusion • Held an Indigenous Graduation Event at the Lodgepole Center.
• Ongoing efforts to incorporate inclusive recognition of special days, holidays, dates of importance and evolve use of language 
and protocol respectfully and inclusively.
Strategic 
Goal 2 
Enable innovation and experimentation through teaching, applied and scholarly 
research, and creative activities
Strategy 2024-2025 Accomplishments
Teaching and 
learning • Implemented BDes internship successfully, and applied learnings and content towards a new course in the School of Visual Art 
and School of Craft and Emerging Media for implementation with BFA students in 2026.
• Launched Un-Settling Pedagogies Program to support faculty professional development. Offered two speaker sessions on 
composing curriculum and hosting difficult questions as well as developing community agreements. Hosted Dr. Dori Tunstall as 
part of the program for a keynote, student and faculty meetings.
• Second annual Teaching and Learning Day completed with keynote on ‘Walk Through Decolonization’, 6 additional presenters 
and approximately 35 participants. 8 unique Teaching and Learning ‘Lunch and Learn’ sessions delivered by, and offered 
to, faculty and staff throughout the academic year, covering topics such as Moodle use, Academic Publishing, Connecting 
Creativity and Industry in Design, and Experiential Learning Definitions and Framework. Sessions well-attended.
• IKG Advisory Council established with faculty, students and community members. Programming, guest talks, and direct 
instruction incorporated in 24/25 to increase collaboration with curriculum and programs, and enhance community 
engagement.
• Progress ongoing in the development of new non-credit programming to support student professionalization.
• Work-integrated learning resources created, including contracts and student preparation materials.
• Ongoing efforts to support enhanced extra-curricular WIL opportunities are in development, including integrating WIL 
micromodules into current micro-certificates, exploring stack-ability, and collaborating with the MFA program to create teaching 
opportunities for graduate students through Continuing Education.
• Moodle successfully expanded to improve access to digital resources and platforms that can support WIL and or other 
programming.
Scholarly research 
and creative 
activities
• Draft of research strategy developed, for further consultation and engagement with faculty in 25/26.
• Discovery underway for MITACS partnership, with ongoing efforts in progress to optimize. AUArts’ involvement.
• Enhancing and promoting research initiatives is ongoing, including  holding five research soiree events held with 15  featured 
faculty members, as well as a book launch and research talk on Syrian Art and Creative Expression as Resistance.
• IKG submitted a Tri-Council grant application, and was confirmed as host for the Prairie Art Network Institute, increasing the 
research presence in the IKG and developing a research mandate.
• Highest enrolment in MFA in Craft Media program to date with 16 total students in 24/25. 8 new students expected in Fall 2025.
---PDF PAGE 13---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  12
Strategic 
Goal 3 
Expand relationships with strategic partners and communities that enrich and 
improve students’ learning outcomes
Strategy 2024-2025 Accomplishments
Integrating external 
communities 
and strategic 
partnerships
• Centennial major plans finalized to focus on external relations, community engagement and strategic efforts towards 
sustainable growth, funding, reputation and awareness.
• Board Chair or delegate and President Goldie completed meetings with Premier, Minister Advanced Education, The Minister 
of Arts, Culture and Status of Women for Alberta, Mayor of Calgary. Government relations and community engagement is an 
ongoing priority.
• Ongoing efforts to engage in the UAD4, including an article in University Affairs and network engagement. 
• Successful convocation and grad show, increasing community presence on campus and institutional public profile. 
Internal 
Partnerships • Held 7 Academic and Student Leaders (ASL) meetings over 2024-2025 to communicate relevant information to the student 
body and provide a channel for the SA to connect with management and seek support as needed. 
• Internal events supported by advancement and facilities/campus operations, ongoing efforts to enhanced internal coordination 
and collaboration to bolster faculty and staff culture, increase community engagement and institutional reputation and reach.    
Strategic 
Goal 4 
Drive sustainable growth through revenue diversification, an engaging academic 
environment and a high performance organization
Strategy 2024-2025 Accomplishments
High performance 
organization • AUAFA Collective agreement (2024-2028) was ratified on June 12, 2025. Bargaining with AUPE will continue into fall 2025.
• Internal Management/Exempt Compensation Guidelines were approved June 2024. Anticipated completion for government 
approval and implementation is December 31, 2025.
• Competency framework was incorporated into performance management review in summer of 2024.
• Successfully piloted performance management module in 2024 and have adopted model for future Management/Exempt 
performance management. AUPE to be implemented after bargaining.
• Labour Action Business Continuity plan finalized, and committee formed with regular meetings. The plan is ready to be 
operationalized if required.
Funding aligned 
with vision and 
mandate
• Centennial Campaign goal of $5M set and fundraising plan and engagement underway. 
• A Centennial Campaign Lead started in January 2025. An internal working group has been created to support the 
implementation of the Centennial Plan.
• Total income generated from Innovation (Cont. Ed and Micro credentials) Mandatory fees met ~74% of what was forecasted 
and ~89% of forecasted income from tuition and additional sales. This first-year launch of new micro-credentials, with early 
uptake will require time to build momentum, and awareness.
• New President attending initial meetings with government officials and APSN, continuing efforts to engage in provincial 
networks. 
Facility master plan • The Learning Commons has been launched and is successfully supporting student and campus needs.
• The master plan refresh is finalized, and priority space and infrastructure needs have been identified through a completed 
business case. Implementation planning is now focused on advancing select initiatives within realistic funding and delivery 
parameters.
• Internal capital planning continues to be guided by long-term financial sustainability and institutional priorities.
• Energy efficiency upgrades are underway as part of a broader facilities optimization approach.
---PDF PAGE 14---
Financial 
Statement 
Discussion 
Analysis
---PDF PAGE 15---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |   14
Financial Statement Discussion Analysis 
The financial statement discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited 
financial statements of Alberta University of the Arts (AUArts) for the year ended June 30, 2025 and 
accompanying notes. The AUArts financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS).  
The Auditor General of Alberta has audited the financial statements and has provided the 
accompanying Independent Auditors’ Report. The financial statements and Annual Report satisfy a 
legislative requirement in Alberta’s Post-Secondary Learning Act. 
The fi
nancial statement discussion and analysis and the audited fi nancial statements are reviewed 
and approved by the Board of Governors of AUArts on the recommendation of the Finance and 
Audit Committee. 
All amounts are expressed in thousands of dollars unless otherwise noted.  
The Board of Governors of AUArts is a corporation which manages and operates AUArts under the 
Post-Secondary Learning Act (Alberta). AUArts is a specialized arts and culture institution mandated 
to offer four-year undergraduate and graduate degrees in visual art and design. 
Financial Highlights
AUArts maintained its strong 
financial position in 2024–25, with results reflecting planned strategic 
investments that led to a modest operating defi cit of $348 (2024: surplus of $815). The deficit 
was primarily driven by costs associated with the launch of the Creative Industries initiative and 
the recognition of accumulated administrative leave benefits from prior service periods. AUArts 
had originally budgeted for a deficit of $86 and received approval from the Ministry of Advanced 
Education for a defi
cit of up to $200, recognizing that the launch of the Creative Industries initiative 
could involve initial start-up challenges. 
The investment in the Creative Industries initiative underscores AUArts’ commitment to aligning 
programs and curriculum with the evolving needs of students and communities, while supporting 
long-term fi
nancial sustainability through revenue diversification. These targeted investments are 
designed to reinforce AUArts’ long-term financial sustainability and position the University to adapt 
to evolving opportunities in the post-secondary landscape. 
The University’s net asset position continued to reflect overall financial strength and prudent 
stewardship. Financial management, disciplined decision-making, and the capitalization of 
investment income from portfolio holdings contributed to a year-end net asset balance of $21,692, 
up from $21,002 in the prior year. The $690 increase primarily reflects a $925 gain in the fair value 
of portfolio investments, partially offset by the annual operating deficit of $348. 
---PDF PAGE 16---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |   15
Revenues
Total revenues for the year ended June 30, 2025, were $27,055, slightly below the budgeted 
amount of $27,064 and the prior year’s total of $27,222. Overall, revenues remained consistent with 
both the budget and the previous year.
Government of Alberta Grants 
Grants from the Government of Alberta represent the University’s largest source of revenue. Total 
revenues from Government of Alberta grants, including expended capital, were consistent with 
the budget but were $442 or 3 per cent lower compared to the prior year. The year-over-year 
decrease primarily reflects lower utilization of multi-year Government of Alberta grants designated 
for specific purposes in 2024-25 compared to 2023-24. 
Federal and Other Government Grants 
Total revenues from federal and other government grants were $12 or 14 per cent higher than the 
prior year and $43 or 75 per cent higher than budget. The increase was primarily due to higher 
utilization of available grants compared to both the prior year and budget. 
Sales of Services and Products 
Sales of services and products, which include revenue from bookstore art supplies, food services, 
provision of information technology to students, and other non-recurring revenue, were $76 or 11 
per cent higher than the prior year and $208 or 37 per cent higher than the budget. The overall 
increase was largely attributable to higher revenues from information technology and food services, 
which surpassed prior-year results and exceeded budget expectations. These gains were partially 
offset by a decline in bookstore sales. 
Student Tuition and Fees 
Student tuition and fees, which include instructional fees, international student fees, and mandatory 
non-instructional fees, totalled $8,921, representing $301 or 3 per cent increase over the prior year 
and a $563 or 6 per cent shortfall compared to the budget. The year-over-year increase reflects 
the increase in student enrollment and tuition rate adjustments, while the variance from budget is 
primarily due to the delayed launch of the Continuing Education Creative Industries initiative and 
lower-than-expected international student enrollment.  
2025
Actual
2025  
Budget
Variance
to Budget
2024
Actual
Variance
to Prior 
Year
Government of Alberta grants $15,688 $15,659 $29 $16,130 $(442)
Federal and other government grants 100 57 43 88 12
Sales of services and products 772 564 208 696 76
Student tuition and fees 8,921 9,484 (563) 8,620 301
Donations and other contributions 809 576 233 761 48
Investment income 765 724 41 927 (162)
$27,055 $27,064 $(9) $27,222 $(167)
---PDF PAGE 17---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |   16
Donations and Other Contributions 
In 2024–25, AUArts continued to receive and utilize valuable support from both new and long-
standing sponsors. Revenues from donations and contributions totalled $809, representing an 
increase of $48, or 6 per cent, over the prior year and $233, or 40 per cent, above budget. The 
year-over-year increase reflects greater utilization of available donation funds during the year. 
Investment Income 
Investment income supports both AUArts’ operating activities and serves as a reserve for strategic 
and other initiatives. Investment income for the year totaled $765, a decrease of $162, or 17 
per cent, from the prior year, but $41, or 6 per cent, above budget. The year-over-year decline 
reflects lower returns on GICs and reduced dividend income resulting from the transition to a new 
investment manager. Because the portfolio transition was planned for early in the subsequent 
2026 fiscal year and before the ex-dividend date for certain securities, AUArts did not recognize the 
prorated dividends typically accrued at June 30 for the preceding six-month period. The positive 
variance from the budget is attributed to actual rates of return exceeding initial projections.
Expenses 
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, total expenses were $27,403, an increase of $996, or 
4 percent, compared to the prior year, and consistent with the budget. Employee salaries and 
benefits, which account for 67 percent of total expenditures, remain the university’s most significant 
cost driver. The overall increase in expenses was primarily due to higher employee compensation 
and benefit costs, as well as increased amortization expense.
Employee Salaries and Benefits 
Employee salaries and benefits were $917, or 5 per cent, higher than the prior year and slightly 
higher than the budget. The increase was primarily due to the replacement of contracted services 
with permanent staff, the accrual of administrative leave benefits, and salary increases resulting 
from cost-of-living adjustments. 
Materials, Supplies and Services 
Materials, supplies, and services were consistent with both the prior year and the budget. 
Amortization of Tangible Capital Assets 
Amortization expense was $1,508, representing a $170 or 13 per cent increase over the prior year 
and in line with the budget. The increase was primarily due to new capital investments and the 
completion of major projects in the prior year and early in 2024–25. 
2025
Actual
2025  
Budget
Variance
to Budget
2024
Actual
Variance
to Prior 
Year
Employee salaries and benefits $18,450 $18,316 $134 $17,533 $917
Materials, supplies and services 5,780 5,701 79 5,850 (70)
Amortization of tangible capital assets 1,508 1,508 - 1,338 170
Utilities 727 850 (123) 758 (31)
Scholarships and bursaries 578 417 161 554 24
Cost of goods sold 276 291 (15) 308 (32)
Maintenance and repairs 84 67 17 66 18
$27,403 $27,150 $253 $26,407 $996
---PDF PAGE 18---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |   17
Utilities 
Utility expenses were $31, or 4 per cent, lower than the prior year and $123, or 14 per cent, below 
budget. The variance was primarily driven by energy savings resulting from the mechanical room 
and electrical projects, which more than offset the average increases in utility rates. 
Scholarships and Bursaries 
Scholarships and bursaries were $24 or 4 per cent higher than the prior year and exceeded 
the budget by $161 or 39 per cent. The year-over-year increase reflects enhanced support for a 
growing student population, while the variance from budget was primarily driven by the distribution 
of a higher-than-anticipated number of awards. These awards were funded through restricted 
sources, including grants, endowments, and the AUArts gem collection. 
Cost of Goods Sold 
The cost of goods sold was $32, or 10 per cent, lower than the prior year and $15, or 5 per cent, 
below budget. This decrease relates to bookstore operations and is consistent with the decline in 
bookstore sales.
Maintenance and Repairs 
Maintenance and repair expenses were $18, or 27 per cent, higher than the prior year and $17, or 
25 per cent, above budget. The increase was primarily due to higher equipment repair costs and 
general maintenance requirements necessary to support ongoing campus operations.
Capital 
AUArts capital acquisitions are funded by internal operating funds, government grants, and 
donations.
Significant capital asset acquisitions in 2024-25 included the following: 
• Heating, ventilation and air conditioning system replacement of $1,631
• Apply Alberta system implementation of $415
• Data cabling project of $167
• Library Common Area of $152
• Other evergreening and studio expenditures
2025 2024 Variance
Building improvement $2,230 $1,407 $823
Computer hardware and software 775 742 33
Furnishings and equipment 309 368 (59)
$3,314 $2,517 $797
---PDF PAGE 19---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |   18
Net Assets and Net Financial Assets 
Net Assets 
The university’s net asset balance provides a strong indication of its financial resilience and long-
term sustainability. Net assets are the university’s accumulated operating surplus, investment in 
tangible capital assets, internally restricted surplus, endowments and accumulated remeasurement 
gains. 
Endowments of $9,402 continue to represent the largest component of net assets. These 
endowments consist of donor contributions that must be maintained in perpetuity, along with 
capitalized investment income that is similarly preserved to protect the long-term economic value 
of the funds. As such, endowment balances are not available for general spending. 
In 2024–25, the increase in AUArts’ net assets was mainly driven by strong returns on long-term 
managed portfolio investments and capitalized investment income. 
The year-over-year net asset balances are further disclosed in the following table: 
Net Financial Assets 
AUArts meets its liquidity needs primarily through operating cash flows, working capital balances, 
and capital expansion funding received via grants. Net financial assets serve as a key indicator 
of the institution’s ability to cover liabilities and support future operations using available fi nancial 
resources. 
The university had net financial assets of $17,340 (2024: $17,501). They reflect the university’s 
strong liquidity position, with no significant change compared to the previous year. Included in the 
June 2025 net financial assets balance is $12,046 (2024: $11,035) of portfolio investments 
restricted for endowments. The economic value of the endowments must be maintained in 
perpetuity and cannot be used to cover liabilities, future operating expenses, or capital 
purchases. 
2025 2024 Variance
Accumulated surplus from operations $6,249 $7,314 $(1,065)
Investment in tangible capital assets 3,489 2,601 888
Internally restricted surplus 72 243 (171)
Endowments 9,402 9,289 113
Accumulated remeasurement gains 2,480 1,555 925
$21,692 $21,002 $690
---PDF PAGE 20---
AUArts Annual Report 2025  |  19
Areas of Significant Financial Risk 
AUArts operates in a complex environment and must deal with a variety of risks which it manages 
through its integrated enterprise risk management framework.  The significant risks that can affect 
AUArts from a financial perspective are as follows: 
Budgetary Pressure 
AUArts relies on the Government of Alberta’s Operations and Program Support Grant for 60 per 
cent of its revenue. In recent years, the Government introduced the Investment Management 
Agreement, which sets performance metrics that must be achieved to maintain this funding. To 
date, AUArts has successfully achieved these metrics. However, any future reduction to this grant 
poses a significant financial risk to the university. With limited flexibility to increase tuition due to 
regulatory constraints and a narrow capacity to expand ancillary revenue streams, AUArts must 
prioritize meeting the Government of Alberta’s performance metrics and implementing operational 
efficiencies to mitigate this risk. 
Inflation Pressures and Escalating Costs 
During the year, AUArts faced increased costs due to macro inflationary pressures. This trend will 
continue into subsequent years, particularly for labour costs due to the ratification of the AUArts 
Faculty Association and Alberta Union of Employees collective agreements. These escalating costs 
may challenge AUArts’ ability to maintain service excellence and ongoing operational efficiencies. 
Information Technology 
AUArts allocates a substantial portion of its operating budget, internally sourced capital funds, and 
restricted reserve funds to information technology annually, supporting system requirements across 
the university. Despite significant investments in IT security and insurance, cyber risks continue 
to grow broadly. A cyber incident affecting AUArts could result in significant financial losses and 
reputational damage. 
Investment Performance 
AUArts held $23 million in portfolio investments at June 30, 2025. The value of AUArts investments 
increased by 14 per cent in 2024-25 compared to 2023-24. However, a decline in investment value 
could negatively impact AUArts’ ability to sustain its services and programs.
---PDF PAGE 21---
Capital Plan
Type of Project and Funding Sources 
Project Timeline and Status
1 GOA = Government of Alberta  
2 Amounts received to June 30, 2025
Type Project Description Project 
Cost
Funding 
Sources1
Funding 
Received 
and Source2
Revised 
Funding 
Sources
Maintenance Classroom/studio HVAC 
replacement
$2,858 100% GoA $2,858
(GoA, CMR funded)
No 
change
Maintenance LED Lighting and control $1,200 100% GoA $1,200
(GoA, CMR funded)
No 
change
Maintenance Elevator Modernization $500 100% GoA $500
(GoA, CMR funded)
No 
change
Maintenance 2nd & 3rd floor SW 
window replacement
$370 100% GoA $370
(GoA, CMR funded)
No 
change
Proposed Multifunctional Gathering 
and Presenting Space
$700 95% GoA 
5% AUArts 
funds
-
No 
change
Project 
Description
Estimated 
Timeline
Expected 
Start
Expected 
Completion
Project 
Status
Progress 
in Last 12 
Months
Classroom/
studio HVAC 
replacement
July 2023 to  
August 2025
July 2023 September 
2025
Commissioning, 
handover and 
warranty 
Construction 
completed
LED Lighting 
and control
March 2026 to 
September 2027
March 2026 September 
2027
Design Planning and 
Design
Elevator 
Modernization
December 2025 
to August 2026
December 
2025
August 2026 Procurement Planning and 
Design
2nd & 3rd floor 
SW window 
replacement
May 2024 to  
August 2025  
May 2024 August 2025 Construction Construction
Multifunctional 
Gathering and 
Presenting 
Space
April 2026 to 
September 2026 
April 2026 September 
2026
Project pending 
approval and 
funding 
Planning and 
Design
---PDF PAGE 22---
Additional Reporting 
Mandatory Non-Instructional Fees 
Mandatory non-instructional fees (MNIFs) are paid by students to support specific goods and services 
that enhance the student experience. MNIFs are: 
 not tuition fees as defined in the Tuition and Fees Regulation 
 required to complete programs approved under the Programs of Study Regulation, established 
under the Skilled Trades and Apprenticeship Education Act, or approved under the Student 
Financial Assistance Act 
 not membership fees for a student organization, and 
 are cost-recovery based 
During the reporting period, AUArts did not introduce any new Mandatory Non-Instructional Fees 
(MNIFs), nor were there any substantive changes to existing MNIFs, including changes to the scope of 
goods or services or the student population to which they apply. 
MNIF Financial Summary 
Fee Name Support Goods / Services Budget Actual Variance Explanation 
Student 
Services Fee 
Academic advising, degree 
planning, Accessibility & 
Accommodation Services, Career 
advising and coaching, etc. 
$350,548 $307, 665 Lower enrollment than budgeted, 
primarily international students 
Technology 
Fee 
Licensed software for coursework, 
Campus Wi-Fi and wired network 
access, Computer Labs & Learning 
Spaces, IT help desk services, etc. 
$193,063 $169,445 Lower enrollment than budgeted, 
primarily international students 
Total  $543,611 $477,110  
Free Speech 
The Alberta University of the Arts' Free Expression Policy was approved in 2019 and can be found at:  
https://auarts.ca/sites/default/files/2023-05/20230425_Freedom_of_Expression_Policy.pdf.  
The Policy has not been amended since it was approved by the Board of Governors in 2019. The Policy 
underwent a 2023 review in accordance with the University's regular policy review process, and no 
revisions were made.  
Policies that may intersect with the University's Statement on Free Expression or impact event bookings 
are: 
 Use of University Facilities for Non-Academic Activities Policy 
 Posters, Notices, and Banners Policy 
 Health and Safety Policy 
 Code of Conduct  
 Student Conduct Policy  
 Respectful Workplace Policy 
 Public Interest Disclosure Procedure  
 
These policies and procedures can be found at: https://auarts.ca/about-auarts/governance/policies-and-
procedures. Additionally, the rights and responsibilities of AUArts' employees are described in their 
respective collective agreements. 
During the 2024-25 fiscal year, no events were cancelled for free speech-related reasons, nor were any 
complaints received regarding free speech. 
---PDF PAGE 23---
Financial 
Statements
---PDF PAGE 24---
Alberta University of the Arts
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the Year Ended
 June 30, 2025
---PDF PAGE 25---
Statement of Management Responsibility
Independent Auditor's Report
Statement of Financial Position
Statement of Operations
Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets
Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses
Statement of Cash Flows
Notes to the Financial Statements
Alberta University of the Arts
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
---PDF PAGE 26---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
Original signed by Dr. Janis Goldie Original signed by Scott Powell
President and Chief Executive Officer Vice-President, Finance and Operations
The financial statements of the Alberta University of the Arts ("University") have been prepared by 
management in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards as described in note 2 to the 
financial statements. The financial statements present fairly the financial position of the University as at    
June 30, 2025 and the results of its operations, remeasurement gains and losses, changes in net financial 
assets and cash flows for the year then ended. 
In fulfilling its responsibilities and recognizing the limits inherent in all systems, management has developed 
and maintains a system of internal control designed to provide reasonable assurance that the University 
assets are safeguarded from loss and that the accounting records are a reliable basis for the preparation of 
the financial statements.
The Board of Governors is responsible for reviewing and approving the financial statements, and overseeing 
management’s performance of its financial reporting responsibilities.
The Board of Governors carries out its responsibility for review of the financial statements principally through 
its Finance and Audit Committee. With the exception of the President and Chief Executive Officer, all 
members of the Finance and Audit Committee are not employees of the University. The Finance and Audit 
Committee meets with management and the external auditors to discuss the results of audit examinations and 
financial reporting matters. The external auditors have full access to the Finance and Audit Committee, with 
and without the presence of management.
These financial statements have been reported on by the Auditor General of Alberta, the auditor appointed 
under the Post-secondary Learning Act . The Independent Auditor’s Report outlines the scope of the audit and 
provides the audit opinion on the fairness of presentation of the information in the financial statements.
1
---PDF PAGE 27---
 Classification: Public 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
 
 
To the Board of Governors of Alberta University of the Arts 
 
 
Report on the Financial Statements  
 
Opinion 
I have audited the financial statements of Alberta University of the Arts (the University), which 
comprise the statement of financial position as at June 30, 2025, and the statements of operations, 
remeasurement gains and losses, change in net financial assets, and cash flows for the year then 
ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
 
In my opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the 
financial position of the University as at June 30, 2025, and the results of its operations, its 
remeasurement gains and losses, its changes in net financial assets, and its cash flows for the year 
then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards. 
 
Basis for opinion 
I conducted my audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards. My 
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Financial Statements section of my report. I am independent of the University in 
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to my audit of the financial statements in 
Canada, and I have fulfilled my other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 
I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
my opinion.  
 
Other information  
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and my 
auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made available to me after the date of 
this auditor’s report. 
 
My opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and I do not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
 
In connection with my audit of the financial statements, my responsibility is to read the other 
information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the financial statements or my knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated.  
 
If, based on the work I will perform on this other information, I conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, I am required to communicate the matter to those charged 
with governance. 
---PDF PAGE 28---
 Classification: Public 
Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for the financial 
statements  
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in 
accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as 
management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
 
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the University’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless an intention exists to liquidate or to cease 
operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so.  
 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the University’s financial reporting 
process.   
 
Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
My objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s 
report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing 
standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial 
statements. 
 
As part of an audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards, I exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. I also: 
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of 
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control. 
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the University’s internal control. 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by management. 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting 
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to 
events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the University’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention 
in my auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify my opinion. My conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of my auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions 
may cause the University to cease to continue as a going concern.  
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including 
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions 
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
---PDF PAGE 29---
 Classification: Public 
 
I communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that I identify during my audit. 
 
 
 
 
[Original signed by W. Doug Wylie FCPA, FCMA, ICD.D] 
Auditor General 
 
October 21, 2025 
Edmonton, Alberta 
---PDF PAGE 30---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2025 2024
Cash and cash equivalents (note 3) 9,666$          12,472$        
Portfolio investments – non-endowment (note 4) 11,313          9,542            
Accounts receivable 826               1,882            
Inventories held for sale 274               295               
22,079          24,191          
Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 3,633            3,356            
Employee future benefit liabilities (note 6) 96                 190               
Debt (note 7) 44                 64                 
Deferred revenue (note 8) 13,012          14,115          
16,785          17,725          
5,294            6,466            
Portfolio investments – restricted for endowments (note 4) 12,046          11,035          
Net financial assets 17,340           17,501          
Non-financial assets
Tangible capital assets (note 9) 14,741          12,935          
Inventories of supplies 354               274               
Prepaid expenses 464               560               
15,559          13,769          
Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions 32,899           31,270          
Spent deferred capital contributions (note 10) 11,207          10,268          
Net assets (note 11) 21,692 $        21,002$        
Net assets are comprised of:
Accumulated surplus 19,212$        19,447$        
Accumulated remeasurement gains 2,480            1,555            
21,692$        21,002$        
Contingent assets and contractual rights (notes 12 and 14)
Contingent liability and contractual obligations (notes 13 and 15)
Approved by the Board of Governors (note 22):
Net financial assets excluding portfolio investments 
restricted for endowments
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
Financial assets excluding portfolio investments 
restricted for endowments
2
---PDF PAGE 31---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
Budget 2025 2024
(note 21)
Revenues
Government of Alberta grants (note 18) 15,659 $      15,688$      16,130$      
Federal and other government grants (note 18) 57                100             88               
Sales of services and products (note 19) 564              772             696             
Student tuition and fees (note 19) 9,484           8,921          8,620          
Donations and other contributions 576              809             761             
Investment income 724              765             927             
27,064        27,055        27,222        
Expenses (note 16)
Instruction and non-sponsored research 10,028         9,971          9,787          
Institutional support 7,224           7,651          6,906          
Academic and student support 5,505           5,472          5,553          
Facility operations and maintenance 3,658           3,512          3,326          
Ancillary services 735              742             734             
Sponsored research -                   55               101             
27,150        27,403        26,407        
Annual operating (deficit) surplus (86)              (348)             815              
Endowment contributions and capitalized investment income
Endowment contributions (note 11) 9                 34               
Endowment capitalized investment income (note 11)
90               104             124             
90               113             158             
Annual surplus (deficit) 4                 (235)            973             
Accumulated surplus, beginning of year 19,447        19,447        18,474        
Accumulated surplus, end of year (note 11) 19,451$      19,212$      19,447$      
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
3
---PDF PAGE 32---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
STATEMENT OF CHANGE IN NET FINANCIAL ASSETS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
Budget 2025 2024
(note 21)
Annual surplus (deficit) 4$
 (235)$          973$           
Acquisition of tangible capital assets (3,314)         (2,517)         
Amortization of tangible capital assets 1,508          1,508          1,338          
(Increase) decrease in inventories of supplies (80)  13
Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses 96  (195)            
Increase (decrease) in spent deferred capital contributions 939             (163)            
Increase in accumulated remeasurement gains 925             551             
(Decrease) in net financial assets 1,512          (161)  -  
Net financial assets, beginning of year 17,501 17,501        17,501        
Net financial assets, end of year 19,013$      17,340$      17,501$      
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
4
---PDF PAGE 33---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
STATEMENT OF REMEASUREMENT GAINS AND LOSSES
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2025 2024
Accumulated remeasurement gains, beginning of year 1,555 $          1,004$          
Unrealized gains attributable to:
Quoted in active market financial instruments:
Portfolio investments — non-endowment 1,275            788               
Amounts reclassified to the statement of operations:
Quoted in active market financial instruments:
Portfolio investments — non-endowment (350)              (237)              
Change in accumulated remeasurement gains 925               551               
Accumulated remeasurement gains, end of year 2,480 $          1,555$          
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
5
---PDF PAGE 34---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2025 2024
Operating transactions
Annual (deficit) surplus (235)$             973$
 
Add (deduct) non-cash items:
Amortization of tangible capital assets 1,508             1,338             
(Gain) on sale of portfolio investments (271)  (88)  
Expended capital contributions recognized as revenue (1,080)            (1,039)  
Change in employee future benefit liabilities (94)  119  
Change in non-cash items 63  330  
Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable 1,056             (1,349)            
Decrease (increase) in inventories held for sale 21  (20)  
Increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities 277  295  
(1,946)            732  
(Increase) decrease in inventories of supplies (80)  13  
Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses 96  (195)  
Cash (used) provided by operating transactions (748)  779  
Capital transactions
Acquisition of tangible capital assets, less in-kind donations (3,314)            (2,517)            
Cash applied to capital transactions (3,314)            (2,517)            
Investing transactions
Purchase of portfolio investments (2,081)            (2,114)            
Proceeds on sale of portfolio investments 1,338             503  
Cash applied to investing transactions (743)  (1,611)  
Financing transactions
Debt – repayment (20)  (20)  
2,019             876 
Cash provided by financing transactions 1,999            
 856  
(Decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2,806)            (2,493)            
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 12,472           14,965           
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 9,666 $           12,472$         
Increase in spent deferred capital contributions
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
(Decrease) increase in deferred revenue, excluding change in restricted 
unrealized gain
6
---PDF PAGE 35---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
1. Authority and Purpose
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices
a) Use of estimates
b) Valuation of financial assets and liabilities
Financial Statement Component
Cash and cash equivalents
Portfolio investments
Inventories held for sale
Accounts receivable
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Debt
Measurement 
Cost
Fair value
Lower of cost or net realizable valu
e
Lower of cost or net realizable value
All financial assets are tested annually for impairment.  When financial assets are impaired, impairment 
losses are recognized in the statement of operations.  A write-down of a portfolio investment to reflect a loss 
in value that is other than temporary is not reversed for a subsequent increase in value. 
Cost
Amortized cost
The Board of Governors of the Alberta University of the Arts is a corporation which manages and operates the
Alberta University of the Arts ("the University") under the Post-secondary Learning Act (Alberta).  All members
of the Board of Governors are appointed by either the Lieutenant Governor in Council or the Minister of
Advanced Education, with the exception of the President and Chief Executive Officer, who is an ex officio
member.  Under the Post-secondary Learning Act  the University is a specialized arts and culture institution
mandated to offer four-year undergraduate and graduate degrees in visual art and design. The University is a
registered charity, and under section 149 of the Income Tax Act  (Canada), is exempt from the payment of
income tax.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting
standards (PSAS) as recommended by the Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada (CPA Canada).
Significant aspects of the accounting policies adopted by the University are as follows:
The measurement of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses is contingent upon future events; 
therefore, the preparation of these financial statements requires the use of estimates, which may vary from 
actual results.  The University's management uses judgement to determine such estimates.  Employee future 
benefit liabilities, amortization of tangible capital assets and restricted expended capital recognized as 
revenue are the most significant items based on estimates.  In management's opinion, the resulting estimates 
are within reasonable limits of materiality and are in accordance with the significant accounting policies 
summarized below.  These significant accounting policies are presented to assist the reader in evaluating 
these financial statements and, together with the following notes, should be considered an integral part of the 
financial statements.
The University's financial assets and liabilities are generally classified and measured as follows:
Unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities are recognized in 
the statement of remeasurement gains and losses. When the restricted nature of a financial instrument and 
any related changes in fair value create a liability, unrealized gains and losses are recognized as deferred 
revenue.
7
---PDF PAGE 36---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
b)  Valuation of financial assets and liabilities (continued)
c)  Revenue recognition
Government grants, non-government grants and donations
Restricted grants and donations are recognized as deferred revenue if the terms for the use, or the terms 
along with the University's actions and communications as to the use, create a liability.  These grants and 
donations are recognized as revenue as the terms are met.  If the grants and donations are used to acquire or 
construct tangible capital assets revenue will be recognized over the useful life of the tangible capital assets. 
Government grants without terms for the use of the grant are recognized as revenue when the University is 
eligible to receive the funds.  Unrestricted non-government grants and donations are recognized as revenue in 
the year received or in the year the funds are committed to the University if the amount can be reasonably 
estimated and collection is reasonably assured. 
In-kind donations of services, materials and tangible capital assets are recognized at fair value when such 
value can reasonably be determined.  Transfers of tangible capital assets from related parties are recognized 
at the carrying value.  While volunteers, as well as University staff, contribute a significant amount of time 
each year to assist the University in carrying out its mission, the value of their services is not recognized in the 
financial statements because the fair value cannot be reasonably determined. 
Government transfers are referred to as government grants.
For financial assets and liabilities measured using amortized cost, the effective interest rate method is used to 
determine interest revenue or expense.  Transaction costs are a component of cost for financial instruments 
measured using cost or amortized cost.  Transaction costs are expensed for financial instruments measured 
at fair value.  Investment management fees are expensed as incurred.  The purchase and sale of cash and 
cash equivalents and portfolio investments are accounted for using trade-date accounting. 
The University does not use foreign currency contracts or any other type of derivative financial instruments for 
trading or speculative purposes. 
Management evaluates contractual obligations for the existence of embedded derivatives and elects to either 
designate the entire contract for fair value measurement or separately measure the value of the derivative 
component when characteristics of the derivative are not closely related to the economic characteristics and 
risks of the contract itself.  Contracts to buy or sell non-financial items for the University's normal purchase, 
sale or usage requirements are not recognized as financial assets or financial liabilities.  The University does 
not have any embedded derivatives. 
All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting.  Cash received for which goods or services 
have not been provided by year end is recognized as deferred revenue. 
8
---PDF PAGE 37---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
c)  Revenue recognition (continued)
Grants and donations related to land 
Sales of services and products
Student tuition and fees
Endowment contributions
Endowment contributions are recognized as revenue in the statement of operations in the year in which they 
are received, and are required by donors to be maintained intact in perpetuity.
Grants and donations for the purchase of land are recognized as deferred revenue when received, and 
recognized as revenue when the land is purchased.
Sales of services and products represent revenues from non-tuition related services and/or products such as 
bookstore sales, media production, rental income, and other administrative charges.
These revenues, with the exception of fines and surcharges, and some administrative fees, are considered 
revenues arising from exchange transactions. Revenue from these transactions is recognized when or as the 
University fulfils its performance obligations and transfers control of the promised goods and services to the 
payor. If the performance obligation is outstanding at year end, the remaining revenue is deferred. 
Revenue without performance obligations is a non-exchange transaction with a payor and is recognized when 
the University has the authority to claim or retain an inflow of economic resources and identifies a past 
transaction or event that gives rise to an asset. 
Student tuition and fees are charged for the programs offered by the University such as program registration 
and application fees, course delivery fees, student ID card replacement fees, locker rental fees, student 
services fees
, network access fees, and studio materials and services fees.
These fees, with the exception of forfeited confirmation deposits, are considered revenue arising from 
exchange transactions with performance obligations. The University recognizes revenue from program 
registration and application fees when received as the performance obligations of registering the student are 
met when paid. Revenue from course delivery and other student services and materials fees are recognized 
over the course of each academic period/semester as the University fulfils its performance obligations by 
delivering the courses. If the performance obligation is outstanding at year-end, the remaining revenue is 
deferred. Revenue from student ID fees is recognized when the performance obligation to provide the student 
ID cards to the student has been met.
The University recognizes in-kind contributions of land as revenue at the fair value of the land when a fair 
value can be reasonably determined. When the University cannot determine the fair value, it recognizes such 
in-kind contributions at nominal value. 
9
---PDF PAGE 38---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
c) Revenue recognition (continued)
Investment income (loss)
d) Endowments
• 
• 
• 
• 
Endowment contributions, matching contributions, and associated investment income allocated for the 
preservation of endowment capital purchasing power are recognized in the statement of operations in the 
period in which they are received. 
Externally restricted donations received by the University and internal allocations by the 
University's Board of Governors, the principal of which is required to be maintained intact in 
perpetuity.
Investment income earned (excluding unrealized income) by the endowments must be used in 
accordance with the various purposes established by the donors or the Board of Governors.  
Donors as well as University policy stipulate that the economic value of the endowments must 
be protected by limiting the amount of income that may be expended and by reinvesting of 
unexpended income. 
Under the Post-secondary Learning Act, the University has the authority to alter the terms and conditions of 
endowments to enable:
Investment income includes dividends, interest income, and realized gains or losses on the sale of portfolio 
investments.  Investment income from restricted grants and donations is recognized as deferred revenue 
when the terms for use create a liability, and is recognized as investment income when terms of the grant or 
donation are met. 
The endowment spending allocation portion of investment income earned by endowments is recognized as 
deferred revenue when the terms for the use of the endowment create a liability.  Realized investment income 
allocated to endowment balances for the preservation of endowment capital purchasing power is recognized 
in the statement of operations as a component of endowment contributions and capitalized investment 
income. 
Endowments consist of: 
Income earned by the endowment to be withheld from distribution to avoid fluctuations in the 
amounts distributed, generally to regulate the distribution of income earned by the endowments. 
Encroachment on the capital of the endowments to avoid fluctuations in the amounts distributed 
and generally to regulate the distribution of investment income earned by the endowments if, in 
the opinion of the Board of Governors, the encroachment benefits the University and does not 
impair the long-term value of the fund. 
Twenty-five percent of the investment income earned on endowment is re-invested along with the principal 
donation.  The remaining seventy-five percent is held to fund scholarship awards. The University does not 
draw against the principal of the endowment to fund scholarship awards. 
10
---PDF PAGE 39---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
d)  Endowments (continued)
e)  Inventories for sale
f)  Tangible capital assets
Building improvements 15 years
Furnishings and equipment 5 years
Computer hardware and software 3 – 5 years
The cost, less residual value, of the tangible capital assets, excluding land, is amortized on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives as follows:
Tangible capital assets are written down when conditions indicate that they no longer contribute to the 
University's ability to provide goods and services, or when the value of future economic benefits associated 
with the tangible capital assets are less than their net book value.  The net write-downs are accounted for as 
expenses in the statement of operations. 
Tangible capital assets are recognized at cost, which includes amounts that are directly related to the 
acquisition, design, construction, development, improvement or betterment of the assets, and costs 
associated with asset retirement obligations.  Cost includes overhead directly attributable to construction and 
development, as well as interest costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of the 
asset.  Work-in-progress, which includes facilities and improvement projects and development of information 
systems, is not amortized until after the project is complete and the asset is in service.  Assets or disposal 
groups that are classified as held-for-sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell. 
All leases are recorded in the financial statements as either a capital or operating lease. Any lease which 
transfers substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership associated with the leased asset are accounted 
for as leased tangible capital assets. Capital lease assets and liabilities are recognized at the lesser of the 
present value of the future minimum lease payments and the asset’s fair market value at the inception of the 
lease, excluding executor costs (e.g. insurance, maintenance costs, etc.).  Leased equipment is reflected as 
an asset and a liability in the statement of financial position.  The discount rate used to determine the present 
value of the lease payments is the interest rate implicit in the lease.  Note 7 provides a schedule of 
repayments and amount of interest on the lease.  
Inventories held for sale are valued at the lower of cost and expected net realizable value and are determined 
using the first in first out (FIFO) method.  Inventories of supplies are valued at the lower of cost or 
replacement cost. 
In the event realized investment income is not sufficient to fund in-year spending allocation, the university has 
the option to adjust the spending policy rate, to defer the spending allocation, or to fund the allocation using 
other institutional sources. 
Assets under capital lease are amortized on the same basis as tangible capital assets.
11
---PDF PAGE 40---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
f) Tangible capital assets (continued)
g) Purchased intangibles
Licenses and course content
h) Foreign currency translation
i) Employee future benefits
Pension
Works of art, historical treasures and collections are expensed when acquired and not recognized as tangible 
capital assets because a reasonable estimate of the future benefits associated with such property cannot be 
made. 
Purchased intangibles are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization. The cost, less any residual value, 
of purchased intangibles with a finite life is amortized on a straight-line basis over its useful life in a manner 
appropriate to its nature and use, which is normally the shortest of the technological, commercial, and legal 
life. Purchased intangibles with an indefinite life are not amortized.
The University's purchased intangibles have estimated finite useful lives as follows:
Lesser of expected useful life or the date at 
which the license expires
Write-downs are recognized for finite and indefinite life intangibles when conditions indicate they no longer 
contribute to the University’s ability to provide services, or when the value of future economic benefits 
associated with the purchased intangibles are less than their net book value. Net write-downs are recognized 
as expenses.
The University participates with other employers in the Local Authorities Pension Plan (LAPP). This pension 
plan is a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan that provides pensions for the University's participating 
employees based on years of service and earnings. 
Transaction amounts denominated in foreign currencies are translated into their Canadian dollar equivalents 
at exchange rates prevailing at the transaction dates.  Carrying values of monetary assets and liabilities and 
non-monetary items included in the fair value category reflect the exchange rates at the statement of financial 
position date.  Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized in the statement of 
remeasurement gains and losses. 
In the period of settlement, foreign exchange gains and losses are reclassified to the statement of operations, 
and the cumulative amount in the remeasurement gains and losses is reversed in the statement of 
remeasurement gains and losses. 
12
---PDF PAGE 41---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
Pension (continued)
Long-term disability
Other employee benefit plans
j)  Liability for contaminated sites
iv.    it is expected that future economic benefits will be given up; and 
v.     a reasonable estimate of the amount can be made.
A liability for a contaminated site may arise from operations that are either considered in productive use or no 
longer in productive use when environmental standards are exceeded. It will also arise when an unexpected 
event occurs resulting in contamination that exceeds an environmental standard.
A liability for remediation of a site is recognized by the University when the University has accepted 
responsibility for remediation costs, even where an environmental standard does not exist or contamination 
does not exceed an environmental standard. The University recognizes a liability for the remediation of these 
sites using the liability for contaminated sites criteria. 
As at June 30, 2025 there are no contaminated sites.
Contaminated sites are a result of contamination of a chemical, organic or radioactive material or live 
organism that exceeds an environmental standard, being introduced into the soil, water or sediment.  It does 
not include airborne contaminants.  The University recognizes a liability for remediation of contaminated sites 
when the following criteria have been met: 
The University does not have sufficient plan information on the LAPP to follow the standards for defined 
benefit accounting, and therefore follows the standards for defined contribution accounting.  Accordingly, 
pension expense recorded for the LAPP is comprised of employer contributions to the plan that are required 
for its employees during the year; which are calculated based on actuarially pre-determined amounts that are 
expected to provide the plan's future benefits.
The University pays or shares the premiums for certain employees on long-term disability.  The cost of 
providing non-vesting and non-accumulating employee future benefits for compensated absences under the 
University's long-term disability plans is charged to expense in full when the event occurs which obligates the 
University to provide the benefits.  The cost of these benefits is determined using the present value of the 
estimated cost of these premiums and is recorded at the time the University becomes obligated under the 
plan.  Comparative amounts for the liability associated with employees on long-term disability continue to be 
presented in the statement of financial position as employee future benefit liabilities. 
The University also provides employee future benefits in the form of compensated absences for sabbaticals.  
The cost of providing employee future benefits for compensated absences under the University's sabbatical 
plan is charged to expense in full when the event occurs which obligates the University to provide the benefits. 
These benefits are disclosed as part of the salaries and benefits. 
i.        an environmental standard exists;
ii.     there is evidence that contamination exceeds an environmental standard;
iii.    the University is directly responsible or accepts responsibility for the contamination;
13
---PDF PAGE 42---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
k) Asset retirement obligations
l) Expense by function
Instruction and non-sponsored research
Academic and student support
Where a present value technique is used to measure a liability, the liability is adjusted for the passage of time 
and is recognized as accretion expense in the statement of operations. This expense ensures that the time 
value of money is considered when recognizing outstanding liabilities at each reporting date. When a present 
value technique is not used, the asset retirement obligation is measured at the current estimated cost to settle 
or otherwise extinguish the liability. 
As at June 30, 2025 there are no asset retirement obligations.
The University uses the following categories of functions on its statement of operations:
Expenses relating to support for the academic functions of the University including institutional program 
delivery, both credit and non-credit, and expenses related to scholarly and non-sponsored research activities 
undertaken by faculty. 
Expenses relating to the direct support of instructional delivery and the support of the student body. 
Asset retirement obligations are legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible capital assets. The 
tangible capital assets include but not limited to assets in productive use, assets no longer in productive use, 
and leased tangible capital assets. Asset retirement activities include all activities relating to an asset 
retirement obligation. These may include, but are not limited to:
i. decommissioning or dismantling a tangible capital asset that was acquired, constructed or developed;
ii. remediation of contamination of a tangible capital asset created by its normal use;
iii. post-retirement activities such as monitoring; and
iv. constructing other tangible capital assets to perform post-retirement activities.
A liability for an asset retirement obligation is recognized when, as at the financial reporting date, all of the 
following criteria are met:
(a) there is a legal obligation to incur retirement costs in relation to a tangible capital asset;
(b) the past transaction or event giving rise to the liability has occurred;
(c) it is expected that future economic benefits will be given up; and
(d) a reasonable estimate of the amount can be made.
When a liability for asset retirement obligation is recognized, asset retirement costs related to recognized 
tangible capital assets in productive use are capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related asset 
and are amortized over the estimated useful life of the underlying tangible capital asset. Asset retirement 
costs related to unrecognized tangible capital assets and those not in productive use are expensed. 
14
---PDF PAGE 43---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)
l) Expense by function (continued)
Institutional support
Facility operations and maintenance
Ancillary services
Sponsored research
m) Funds and reserves (PSG-4)
n) Future changes in accounting standards
Effective April 1, 2026, PS 1202 Financial Statement Presentation. Section PS 1202 sets out general and 
specific requirements for the presentation of information in general purpose financial statements. The 
financial statement presentation principles are based on the concepts within the Conceptual Framework. 
Expenses relating to secondary services available to students, faculty and staff.  Services include food 
services and bookstore operations. 
Expenses for all sponsored research activities specifically funded by restricted grants and donations.
Expenses relating to executive management, corporate insurance premiums, corporate finance, human 
resources, information technology, communications and fund development, and other University-wide 
administrative services. 
The University is currently assessing the impact of the new conceptual framework and standard, and the 
extent of the impact of their adoption on the financial statements has not yet been determined.
The University will adopt the following new conceptual framework and accounting standard approved by the 
Public Sector Accounting Board:
Certain amounts, as approved by the Board of Governors, are set aside in accumulated operating surplus for 
future operating and capital purposes.  Transfers to and from funds and reserves are an adjustment to the 
respective fund when approved by the Board of Governors.
Effective April 1, 2026, The Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting in the Public Sector. The 
Conceptual Framework is the foundation for public sector financial reporting standards. It replaces the 
conceptual aspects of Section PS 1000, Financial Statement Concepts , and Section PS 1100, Financial 
Statement Objectives . The conceptual framework highlights considerations fundamental for the consistent 
application of accounting issues in the absence of specific standards.
Expenses relating to maintenance and renewal of facilities that house the teaching, research and 
administrative activities within the University.  These include utilities, facilities administration, building 
maintenance, security, custodial services, as well as minor repairs and renovations. 
15
---PDF PAGE 44---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
3. Cash and cash equivalents
2025 2024
Cash 8,505$     4,348$     
Cash equivalents 1,161       8,124       
9,666$     12,472$   
4. Portfolio investments
2025 2024
Portfolio investments – non-endowment 11,313$   9,542$     
Portfolio investments – restricted for endowments 12,046     11,035     
23,359$   20,577$   
The composition of portfolio investments measured at fair value is as follows:
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Portfolio managed money market 634$        - $             - $  
634 $        
9,133       - -               
9,133       
Portfolio managed equity 13,592     - -               
13,592     
23,359$   -$             -$  
23,359$   
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Portfolio managed money market 1,299$     -$             -$  
1,299$     
7,665       - - 
7,665       
Portfolio managed equity 11,613     - - 
11,613     
20,577$   -$             -$  
20,577$   
Level 1 –
Level 2 –
Level 3 –
Fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within 
level 1 that are observable for the assets, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived 
from prices).
Fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the 
assets that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Cash and cash equivalents are comprised of cash on hand and short-term investments held for the 
purpose of meeting short-term commitments.
2025
2024
The fair market value measurements are those derived from:
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets. 
Portfolio mana
ged fixed income
Portfolio managed fixed income
16
---PDF PAGE 45---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
4. Portfolio investments (continued)
5. Financial risk management
The University is exposed to the following risks:
Market price risk
The University is exposed to market price risk – the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
as a result of changes in market prices, whether those changes are caused by factors specific to the 
individual security, its issuer or general market factors affecting all securities.  To manage this risk, the 
University has established an investment policy with a target asset mix that is diversified by asset class with 
individual issuer limits and is designed to achieve a long-term rate of return that in real terms equals or 
exceeds total endowment expenditures with an acceptable level of risk.
The following details the University's portfolio sensitivity to an 8.2% increase or decrease in the market 
prices.  The sensitivity rate is determined using the historical standard deviation for the total fund based on 
a 4-year rolling period as determined by the investment advisor.  At June 30, 2025, if market prices had a 
8.2% (2024 – 8.2%) increase or decrease, with all other variables held constant, the increase or decrease 
in accumulated remeasurement gains and losses and deferred revenue for the year would be $1,911   
(2024 – $1,688).
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in foreign exchange rates.  The University does not use foreign currency forward 
contracts or any other type of derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  The 
University's exposure to foreign exchange risk is very low due to minimal business activities conducted in a 
foreign currency. 
The University has policies and procedures in place governing asset mix, diversification, exposure limits, 
credit quality and performance measurement.  The University's Finance and Audit Committee, a 
subcommittee of the Board of Governors, has the delegated authority for oversight of the University's 
investments under a policy of the Board.  The Finance and Audit Committee monitors investment manager 
performance, to ensure compliance with the University's investment guidelines, and to evaluate the 
continued a
ppropriateness of the University's investment guidelines. 
Under the investment policy, the prime objectives of the investment fund are to generate income and to 
preserve the purchasing power of donated capital, and to generate growth in the capital value of the 
University's investment funds.  
The prime constraints that guide the investment practice are risk aversion and liquidity. 
17
---PDF PAGE 46---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
5. Financial risk management (continued)
Fair value
2.5% 
decrease
1.0% 
decrease
1.0% 
increase
2.5% 
increase
4,880$       (122) $       (49)$         49 $          122$        
1,658         (41)            (17)           17             41            
1,100         (28)            (11)           11             28            
663            (17)           (7)              7              17            
2025 2024
Credit rating
AAA 26.81% 19.55%
AA 27.61% 32.27%
A 29.14% 28.29%
BBB 16.44% 19.89%
100.00% 100.00%
Interest rate risk is the risk to the University's earnings that arise from the fluctuations in interest rates and 
the degree of volatility of these rates.  This risk is managed by investment policies that limit the term to 
maturity of certain fixed income securities that the University holds.  If interest rates increased by 1%, and 
all other variables are held constant, the potential loss in fair value to the University's fixed income portfolio 
would be approximately 6.6% (2024 – 6.7%).
British pound
Japanese yen
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the University will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its 
financial liabilities.  The University maintains investments that may not be immediately liquid.  This risk is 
managed through the University's investment guidelines and other internal policies, guidelines and 
procedures. 
Interest rate risk
Credit risk
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the failure of a counterparty to fully honour its 
financial obligations with the University.  The University is exposed to credit risk on investments and has 
established an investment policy with required minimum credit quality standards and issuer limits to 
manage this risk.  The credit risk from accounts receivable is low as the majority of balances are due from 
government agencies and corporate sponsors.
The credit risks on investments held are as follows:
The impact of a change in the most material value of the portfolio investment denominated in foreign 
currency is shown below:
US dollar
Euro
Foreign currency risk (continued)
18
---PDF PAGE 47---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
5. Financial risk management (continued)
Cash and cash equivalents 100% 0% 0% 2.66%
0.18% 41.72% 58.10% 3.54%
6. Employee future benefits
a) Long-term disability
b) Defined benefit plan accounted for on a defined contribution basis
7. Debt
Interest 
rate 2025 2024
Liabilities under capital leases 4% 44$          64$          
Principal Interest Total
2026 21            2               23            
2027 21            1               22            
2028 2              -                2              
44$          3 $            47$          
The maturity and effective market yield of interest bearing investments are as follows:
> 5 years
Interest rate risk (continued)
Average 
effective 
market yieldAsset class < 1 year 1 - 5 years
Portfolio funds, fixed income
Interest expense on debt is $4 (2024 - $1) and is included in the statement of operations.
The University has liabilities under capital lease agreements for copier and printing equipment.  The 
following outstanding amounts relate to these obligations:
Principal and interest repayments are as follows:
The University provides certain extended health benefits to employees leaving the employment of the 
University under specific conditions. Liabilities for future benefit payments are recognized by the University 
in the year the application is approved. As at June 30, 2025, the University had a liability associated with 
these benefits totalling $96 (2024 - $190).
Multi-employer pension plan
Local Authorities Pension Plan (LAPP)
The LAPP is a multi-employer contributory defined benefit plan for support staff members and is accounted 
for on a defined contribution basis.  At December 31, 2024, the LAPP reported an actuarial surplus of 
$19,557 million (2023 – $15,057 million).  An actuarial valuation of the LAPP was carried out as at 
December 31, 2023 and the results were then extrapolated to December 31, 2024. The pension expense 
recognized in these financial statements is $1,025 (2024 – $1,021).  
19
---PDF PAGE 48---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
8. Deferred revenue
2024
Deferred 
research 
and special 
purpose
Unspent 
deferred 
capital 
contributions
Student 
tuition, fees 
and other 
revenue Total Total
Balance, beginning of year 6,120$        7,049$           946$            14,115$     12,812$     
Grants, tuition, and other donations 858             658  8,406           9,922          10,352       
Restricted investment income 351             -  -  351             543             
Unrealized gains 843             -  -  843             571             
Other transfers (195)  19 - (176)  -  
Transfers to spent deferred capital 
contributions -  (2,019)  - (2,019)  (876)           
Recognized as revenue (739)  (64)  (8,732)  (9,535)  (8,880)        
Scholarships, bursaries issued (489)  -  -  (489)  (407)  
Balance, end of year 6,749$        5,643$           620$            13,012$     14,115$     
2025
Deferred revenue is set aside for specific purposes as required by legislation, regulation or agreement:
20
---PDF PAGE 49---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
9. Tangible capital assets
2024
Building 
Improvements
Furnishings 
and 
Equipment(1)
Computer 
Hardware 
and 
Software
Total Total
Cost
Beginning of year 18,095$            1,790 $          2,142 $         22,027 $     20,237 $     
Acquisitions 2,230                309               775              3,314          2,517          
-                       -                    (154)             (154)           (727)           
20,325              2,099            2,763           25,187        22,027        
Beginning of year 6,647$              1,103 $          1,342 $         9,092 $       8,481 $       
Amortization expense 1,129                213               166              1,508          1,338          
-                       -                    (154)             (154)           (727)           
7,776                1,316            1,354           10,446        9,092          
12,549$            783$             1,409$         14,741 $     
11,448$            687$             800$            12,935 $     
No interest was capitalized by the University in 2025.
(1)
10. Spent deferred capital contributions
2025 2024
Balance, beginning of year 10,268 $     10,431 $     
Transfers from unspent deferred capital contributions 2,019          876             
Expended capital contributions recognized as revenue (1,080)        (1,039)        
Net change for the year 939             (163)           
Balance, end of year 11,207 $     10,268 $     
Spent deferred capital contributions is comprised of externally restricted grants and donations spent on tangible 
capital acquisitions (not yet recognized as revenue).
The University holds a large number of contemporary works of art including paintings, sculptures, drawings, 
photographs, prints and other craft media.  Due to the subjective nature of the value of these assets, the values 
are not reported in this note. 
Effects on disposals, including 
write-downs
Net Book Value at June 30, 2025
Net Book Value at June 30, 2024
2025
Cost includes work-in-progress at June 30, 2025 totaling $2,804 (2024 – $1,114) comprised of building 
improvements $2,231 (2024 – $743), computer hardware and software $567 (2024 - $371) and equipment $6 
(2024 - $0). These amounts are not amortized as they are not yet available for use. 
Included in furnishings and equipment are assets under capital lease that have a cost of $105 (2024 – 
$105) and accumulated amortization of $60 (2024 – $40).
Accumulated Amortization
The land and buildings which house the University are owned by SAIT and are occupied by the University under 
a master service agreement.  
Disposals, including
write-downs
21
---PDF PAGE 50---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
11. Net assets
Accumulated 
surplus from 
operations
Investment 
in tangible 
capital 
assets
Internally 
restricted 
surplus Endowments Total
Net Assets as at June 30, 2023 9,147 $            1,238 $         512 $            8,581 $           19,478 $    
815                 -                   -                   -                     815            
New donations -                     -                   -                   34                  34              
Capitalized investment income -                     -                   -                   124                124            
Transfer to (from) endowments (550)               -                   -                   550                -                 
Amortization of tangible capital assets 279                 (279)             -                   -                     -                 
Acquisition of tangible capital assets (1,538)             1,642           (104)             -                     -                 
165                 -                   (165)             -                     -                 
551                 -                   -                   -                     551            
8,869$            2,601$         243$            9,289$           21,002 $    
(348)               -                   -                   -                     (348)           
New donations -                     -                   -                   9                    9                
Capitalized investment income -                     -                   -                   104                104            
Amortization of tangible capital assets 407                 (407)             -                   -                     -                 
Acquisition of tangible capital assets (1,263)             1,295           (32)               -                     -                 
139                 -                   (139)             -                     -                 
925                 -                   -                   -                     925            
8,729$            3,489$         72$              9,402$           21,692 $    
Net assets is comprised of: 
Accumulated surplus 6,249$            3,489$         72$              9,402$           19,212 $    
2,480              -                   -                   -                     2,480         
8,729$            3,489$         72$              9,402$           21,692 $    
2025 2024
Capital and infrastructure 11$                19 $           
Academic and institutional initiatives 61                  224            
72$                243 $         
Annual operating surplus
Endowments:
Tangible capital assets:
Operating expenses funded from internally 
restricted surplus
Annual operating (deficit)
Internally restricted accumulated surplus represents amounts set aside by the University's Board of Governors for specific 
purposes.  Those amounts are not available for other purposes without the approval of the Board and do not have interest 
allocated to them.  Internally restricted net assets with significant balances include:
Change in accumulated remeasurement gains
Net assets, end of year
Accumulated remeasurement gains and losses
Internally restricted surplus
Endowments:
Tangible capital assets:
Operating expenses funded from internally 
restricted surplus
Change in accumulated remeasurement gains
Net assets, beginning of year
22
---PDF PAGE 51---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
12. Contingent assets
13. Contingent liability
14. Contractual rights
15. Contractual obligations
Service 
contracts
Information 
systems and 
technology Total
2026 1,103 $          746 $             1,849$          
2027 345  244  589               
2028 14  141  155               
2029 3  80  83  
Total at June 30, 2025 1,465$          1,211$          2,676$          
Total at June 30, 2024 2,202$          1,622$          3,824$          
The University has no material contractual rights arising from contracts or agreements that will result in
both an asset and revenue in the future when the terms of those contracts or agreements are met.
The University has no contingent assets as at June 30, 2025.
The University has contractual obligations which are commitments that will become liabilities in the future
when the terms of the contracts or agreements are met.  The estimated aggregate amount payable for the
unexpired terms of these contractual obligations are as follows:
The University has no contingent liability as at June 30, 2025.
23
---PDF PAGE 52---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
16. Expense by object
2024
Budget Actual Actual
(note 21)
Employee salaries and benefits 18,316 $               18,450$               17,533$               
Materials, supplies and services 5,701                   5,780                   5,850                   
Amortization of tangible capital assets 1,508                   1,508                   1,338                   
Utilities 850                       727                      758                      
Scholarships and bursaries 417                      578                      554                      
Cost of goods sold 291                      276                      308                      
Maintenance and repairs 67                        84                        66                        
27,150$               27,403$               26,407$               
17. Related parties
• 
• 
2025
The following is a summary of expense by object:
During the year, the University conducted business transactions with related parties, including Ministries 
of the Government of Alberta, school districts, and other public colleges and universities. The revenues 
and expenses incurred for these business transactions have been included in the statement of operations 
but have not been separately quantified. 
The University is a related party to organizations within the Government of Alberta reporting entity.  Key 
management personnel of the University and their close family members are also considered related 
parties.  The University may enter into arm's length transactions with these entities and individuals. 
During the year, the University received the following services at nominal or reduced amounts:
The University operates out of the building owned by the Southern Alberta Institute of 
Technology (SAIT).  The University has occupied the site for the past 39 years for a nominal 
sum in accordance with the terms of a short-term lease agreement with SAIT which has been 
renewed regularly.
The University has a service agreement with SAIT for the provision of certain computer and 
information systems support and maintenance.  During the year, the University paid $476  
(2024 – $360) for these services, but due to the unique physical and operating arrangements in 
place and the specialized integrated nature of operations, the fair value of this agreement 
cannot reasonably be determined. 
The University has a contractual obligation to SAIT for $199 (2024 – $380) included in Note 15 
related to future computer and information systems support and maintenance.
The University amount due to SAIT as at June 30, 2025 is $1,046 (2024 - $1,247).
24
---PDF PAGE 53---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
18. Government transfers
2025 2024
Grants from Government of Alberta
    Advanced Education:
  Operating grants 14,698$       14,686$       
  Capital grants 658  1,386  
    Total Advanced Education contributions received 15,356  16,072  
Deferred revenue (688)  (914)  
Expended capital contributions recognized as revenue 1,020 972              
15,688$       16,130$       
Federal and other government grants
Contributions received 100$            43$              
Deferred revenue (57)  (12)  
Expended capital contributions recognized as revenue 57  57  
100$            88$              
19. Revenue
2025 2024
Student tuition and fees
Undergraduate tuition fees 6,904$         6,831$         
Continuing education course fees 509  507  
Graduate tuition fees 387  188  
Artstream tuition fees 57  53  
Other student fees 1,064  1,041  
8,921$         8,620$         
Sales of services and products
Bookstore 495$            533$            
Other 277  163  
772$            696$            
The University recognizes revenue of $61 (2024 - $22) which is considered non-recurring.
The University operates under the authority and statutes of the Province of Alberta.  Transactions and
balances between the University and the Government of Alberta are measured at the exchange amount
and summarized below.
The main source and type of revenue making up student tuition and fees, as well as sales of services
and products are summarized below.
25
---PDF PAGE 54---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
20. Salary and employee benefits
2024
Base 
salary (1)
Other 
cash 
benefits (2)
Other non-
cash 
benefits (3) Total
Total
(Restated)(9)
Governance (4)
Chair of the Board of Governors -$              - $              - $              -$         -$                
Members of the Board of Governors -                -                 -                 -            -                  
Executive
President and Chief Executive Officer
Incumbent(5) 54             1                9               64         -                  
Past Incumbent(6)(9) 195           35              31              261      511              
Vice-Presidents:
Vice-President Finance and Operations 186           -                60              246      208              
Vice-President Advancement(7) 113           141            24              278       198              
Deans: 
Dean, Academic Programs(8) 121           -                 23              144      174              
Dean, Innovation, Learning & Development 149           -                28              177      174              
Dean of Students 156           -                28              184      174              
Executive Director, People and Culture 156           -                32              188      177              
University Secretary 145           -                29              174      165              
(1) Base salary includes pensionable base pay.
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
The incumbent held the position effective April 14, 2025.
2025
Other cash benefits include earnings such as vacation payouts, vehicle allowances, and other lump sum 
payments, including severance. No bonuses were paid in 2025 or 2024. 
Other non-cash benefits include the University's share of all employee benefits and contributions or 
payments made on behalf of employees including pension, group life insurance, employee family 
assistance program, critical illness, health care, short and long-term disability plans, dental coverage, 
accidental disability, dismemberment,  professional memberships, tuition fees, administrative leave 
accruals, fair market value of parking, and other taxable benefits.
The Chair and Members of the Board of Governors receive no remuneration for participation on the 
Board. 
The incumbent held the position until February 27, 2025, at which time the incumbent was terminated. 
Other cash benefits include $75 of severance pay.
The incumbent left the position effective April 13, 2025, at which time the incumbent was appointed to 
the position of President and Chief Executive Officer.
The past incumbent left the position effective April 13, 2025. Over the course of his service, the 
individual accrued administrative leave benefits, which have been recorded in the 2024 balance.
The comparative information for non-cash benefits previously did not include the accrual for 
administrative leave benefits. The 2024 balance has been restated to include administrative leave 
benefits accrued over the former President and Chief Executive Officer’s period of service.
26
---PDF PAGE 55---
ALBERTA UNIVERSITY OF THE ARTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
(thousands of dollars)
21. Budget figures
22. Approval of financial statements
This financial statements were approved by the Board of Governors of the Alberta University of Arts.
23. Comparative figures
Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
The University's 2024-25 budget was approved by the Board of Governors and submitted to the Minister of
Advanced Education.
27
---PDF PAGE 56---
1407 14 Avenue NW, Calgary, Alberta, Canada  T2N 4R3  AUArts.ca
@AlbertaUArts
Alberta University of the Arts