---PDF PAGE 1---
Annual Report  
2024/25
---PDF PAGE 2---

---PDF PAGE 3---

---PDF PAGE 4---
Format Note: Annual Report Template 
MacEw
an’s 2024-25 Annual Report was developed according to the Annual Report Guidelines, last updated in March 
2025. The guidelines are provided by the Government of Alberta and describe the content, format, and submission process 
for the annual reports of Alberta’s public post-secondary institutions, including MacEwan. 
Page | 1
1
---PDF PAGE 5---
Table of Contents 
MacEwan University 2024/2025 Annual Report ………………………………………………………………………………. 4 
Institutional Information 6 
1. Accountability Acknowledgement 7 
2. Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act 9 
3. Goals and Performance Measures 10 
4. Financial Information 20 
5. Self-generated Revenue 23 
6. Capital Report 29 
7. Mandatory Non-instructional Fees (MNIF) Reporting 33 
8. Free Speech Reporting 37 
9. Board of Governors Training on For-profit Ventures 38 
Appendix: TEACHING GREATNESS: STRATEGIC VISION 2030 | March 2025 Bi-annual Dashboard … .. 39 
Explanatory Note 41 
Strategic Vision Dashboard 42 
Endnotes 45 
Impact of Teaching Greatness 46 
Page | 2
2
---PDF PAGE 6---
46  
47 
48 
49 
50 
1.1 – Teaching Greatness 
1.2 – Smash the Calendar 
1.3 – Grand as a Griffin 
1.4 – Perpetual Motion 
1.5 – Trendsetters and Trendbreakers 
1.6 – Honouring our Place in O’day -min 51 
App
endix: Consolidated Financial Statements ……………………………………………………………………………… .. 53 
Statement of Management Responsibility 55 
Independent Auditor’s Report 56 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 59 
Consolidated Statement of Operations 60 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets 61 
Consolidated Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses 62 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 63 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 64 
Page | 3
3
---PDF PAGE 7---
MacEwan University 2024/2025 Annual Report
Page | 4
4
---PDF PAGE 8---
Table of Contents
Institutional Information
1. Accountability Acknowledgement
2. Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act
3. Goals and Performance Measures
4. Financial Information
5. Self-generated Revenue
6. Capital Report
7. Mandatory Non-instructional Fees (MNIF) Reporting
8. Free Speech Reporting
9. Board of Governors Training on For-profit Ventures
#
Page | 5
5
---PDF PAGE 9---
Information
Institution Name MacEwan University
President's Name Dr. Annette Trimbee
Board Chair's Name Carolyn Graham
#
Page | 6
6
---PDF PAGE 10---
1. Accountability Acknowledgement (a & b)
a. Accountability Statement
Signature of the President
Signature of the Board Chair
The President and the Chair of either the board (PSI) or the governing body (IAI) (Board Chair) are required to sign the appropriate 
accountability statement below based on their institution type.
The institution’s Annual Report for the year ended was prepared under the Board’s direction in accordance with the Sustainable Fiscal 
Planning and Reporting Act  and ministerial guidelines established pursuant to the Post-secondary Learning Act . All material economic, 
environmental, or fiscal implications of which we are aware have been considered in the preparation of this report.
Public Post-secondary Institutions
#
Page | 7
7
[Original signed by Annette Trimbee, PhD]
[Original signed by Carolyn Graham, FCPA, FCA, ICD.D]
---PDF PAGE 11---
b. Management's Responsibility for Reporting
Signature of the President
Signature of the Board Chair
The institution’s management is responsible for the preparation, accuracy, objectivity, and integrity of the information contained in the 
Annual Report. Systems of internal control are designed and maintained by management to produce reliable information to meet reporting 
requirements. The system is designed to provide management with reasonable assurance that transactions are properly authorized, are 
executed in accordance with all relevant legislation, regulations and policies, reliable financial records are maintained, and assets are properly 
accounted for and safeguarded.
The Annual Report has been developed under the oversight of the institution audit committee, as well as approved by the Board of Governors 
and is prepared in accordance with the Sustainable Fiscal Planning and Reporting Act  and the Post-secondary Learning Act .
The Auditor General of Alberta, the institution’s external auditor appointed under the Post-secondary Learning Act , performs an annual 
independent audit of the consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting 
standards. (Note: This last paragraph does not apply to The Banff Centre.)
This accountability statement, signed by both the President and Board Chair, outlines management’s responsibility for preparing and 
submitting the annual report. The President and Board Chair must sign the appropriate accountability statement below based on their 
institution type.
Public Post-secondary Institutions
#
Page | 8
8
[Original signed by Carolyn Graham, FCPA, FCA, ICD.D]
[Original signed by Annette Trimbee, PhD]
---PDF PAGE 12---
Number of disclosures received 1.00
Number of disclosures acted on 1.00
Number of disclosures not acted on 0.00
Number of investigations commenced 0.00
Number of investigations still underway 0.00
2. Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act
Provide a d
escription of any wrongdoing found and any recommendations made or corrective measures taken regarding the wrongdoing, or 
the reasons why no corrective measure was taken.  
No wrongdoing found.
Fulfill disclosure requirements under the Public Interest Disclosure (i.e. Whistleblower Protection) Act  (the Act).
The Act applies to provincial government departments, offices of the Legislature and to public entities. Public entities include any agency, 
board, commission, Crown Corporation, or other entity designated in the Regulations.
The purposes of the Act are to:
· Facilitate the disclosure and investigation of significant and serious matters an employee believes may be unlawful,   dangerous or injurious
to the public interest;
· Protect employees who make a disclosure;
· Manage, investigate, and make recommendations respecting disclosures or wrongdoings and reprisals; and
· Promote public confidence in the administration of the departments, Legislative offices, and public entities.
Section 32(1) of the Act requires every chief officer (as defined in the Public Interest Disclosure Regulation) to prepare a report annually on all 
disclosures that have been made to the designated officer.
Section 32(2) of the Act requires that the chief officer’s report includes the number of disclosures received, acted on and not acted on, the 
number of investigations commenced, a description of any wrongdoing found, and any recommendations made or corrective measures taken 
regarding the wrongdoing or the reasons why no corrective measure was taken.
Section 32(3) of the Act requires this information be included in public entities’ annual reports.
Provide the numbers for each item below, if applicable.
#
For more information, please visit: https://yourvoiceprotected.ca/chief-designated-officers/ 
Page | 9
9
---PDF PAGE 13---
3. Goals and Performance Measures
Goals and Performance Measures
List the progress made over the past year on the institution’s goals and related performance measures. Demonstrate alignment between your 
institution's strategic plan, performance measures, and achieved outcomes.
MacEwan University’s strategic vision, Teaching Greatness: Strategic Vision 2030 ,  articulates MacEwan’s ten-year strategy and its central focus 
on providing an exceptional undergraduate experience. It is guided by five strategic directions—teaching greatness, smash the calendar, grand 
as a Griffin, perpetual motion, and trendsetters and trendbreakers. A sixt h direction, honouring our place in O-day’min, cuts across all other 
strategic directions and reflects MacEwan’s role in the heart of Edmonton. 
MacEwan’s Strategic Vision Dashboard includes a selection of Board-approved metrics to measure and communicate progress made toward 
each of its strategic directions. The Dashboard is updated biannually, in September/October and March. The information in the attachment is 
accurate as of March 3, 2025.
MacEwan’s Dashboard is attached to this annual report in response to direction in the Annual Report Guidelines. The attached Dashboard-
update was provided to the board in March 2025, aligns with the end of the fiscal year, and is complemented by MacEwan’s responses in the 
three sections below specifically requested by Advanced Education in the new Guidelines.
Note: The March Dashboard-update is the first biannual update. Some metrics included in March are considered preliminary while others are 
only revised in the second, comprehensive biannual update in September/October. For example, some metrics are only considered official after 
the final Learner and Enrolment Reporting System (LERS) report is submitted and certified by Advanced Education in the Summer, and others 
are finalized after the academic year concludes in April. 
MacEwan’s strategic vision, dashboard, and related information and updates can be found at: 
https://www.macewan.ca/about-macewan/strategic-vision/
#
Page | 10
10
---PDF PAGE 14---
a. Student Supports and Resources
Outline student support services and resources your institution offers that address the diverse needs of your students and helps them to excel 
in and to complete their post-secondary studies (e.g., academic and career advising, financial and housing assistance, health & wellness 
services, etc.).
•MacEwan offers a range of holistic student supports and services in a variety of modalities to respond, quickly, to students’ needs throughout
the full lifecycle of the post-secondary experience.
•In addition to its comprehensive suite of on-campus resources and services, MacEwan is uniquely situated in Edmonton's downtown core and
connected with a variety of community partners to whom the University may refer students as appropriate.
•In our most recent surveys, 85 per cent of graduating students and 93 per cent of alumni surveyed indicated they would recommend
MacEwan, which speaks to the success and responsiveness of our services.
#
Page | 11
11
---PDF PAGE 15---
Academic and career supports:
•Academic Advising: Hub and Spoke model with general questions, including those from prospective and new students, addressed by academic
advisors in the Academic Advising Centre and program-specific questions addressed by academic advisors in the Faculties and Schools.
•MacEwan's John L. Haar Library: comprehensive suite of research and writing support, including a Writing Centre and Subject Librarians as
well as physical and digital collections and resources.
•kihêw waciston Indigenous Centre: personal, academic, financial, and cultural support for Indigenous students, specifically, but its doors are
open to everyone in the MacEwan community.
•MacEwan International: International student specialists at MacEwan International can answer academic-related questions, direct
international students with student-related immigration inquiries to qualified specialists within MacEwan International, provide cultural and
academic support, and connect current international students with the people and services they need for a successful and memorable
university experience.
•Access and Disability Resources: coordinates accommodations for students with disabilities or medical conditions such as in-class support and
exam services.
•Math and Stats Learning Centre: provides drop-in support to first- and second-year students throughout the term.
•Student Success Resources: Study Skills guides, workshops, and one-on-one sessions with Student Success Navigators for personalized
academic support.
•Career Services: offer a comprehensive suite of career advising and support for students. Career Services helps students search and prepare
for employment opportunities, including resume review and mock interviews, as well as provides career planning services to help students
transition from classroom to career. Additional services and resources include a job board for current students and alumni, career fairs, and
networking opportunities such as employer recruitment events for students.
•Office of Research Services: Research Services supports students engaged in research and creative activity at MacEwan, including application
support for funding opportunities.
•Technology Support: help with printing or copying at MacEwan, booking and borrowing equipment, MacEwan Secure wireless services or the
paskwâwi-mostos mêskanâs digital learning environment.
#
Page | 12
12
---PDF PAGE 16---
Financial and housing supports: 
•Office of the University Registrar: offers Fees & Financial Aid resources, including Scholarships, Awards, and Bursaries.
•Financial Literacy self-study course.
•kihêw waciston Indigenous Centre: Indigenous student funding advising and resources.
•Residence: MacEwan’s 834-bed residence is a safe, welcoming home away from home for students. The front desk, located inside the
Residence entrance, is open 24/7.
Mental health and safety supports: 
•Wellness and Psychological Services’ (WPS) Resources: in addition to individual counselling and case management, WPS provides a number of 
resources to students through a variety of mechanisms to respond to the unique needs of students wherever they are in their mental health 
journeys. From in-person and recorded workshops to courses and self-paced modules, students in need can access resources on a timeline 
appropriate to their needs.
•Peer Health Education Team (PHET): a team of student volunteers providing peer-to-peer education, advocacy, and collaboration with campus 
and community members. PHET’s activities include health promotion throughout campus in a variety of engaging ways to support health on 
campus.
•Coalition for Harm Reduction at MacEwan (CHARM): provides resources, programming, and training to the MacEwan University community, 
through collaborative initiative between members of the MacEwan and wider Edmonton communities.
•Office of Sexual Violence Prevention, Education, and Response: supports survivors of sexual violence and educates the MacEwan community 
in learning to recognize, respond to, and prevent all forms of sexual violence.
Physical well-being supports include:
•MacEwan’s University Health Centre: an award-winning teaching clinic, a unique collaboration between MacEwan University and the
University of Alberta Department of Family Medicine, an Academic Teaching site, and a member of the Edmonton O-day'min Primary Care
Network. It provides students, faculty, and staff access to a comprehensive suite of physical and mental health care services, including disease
prevention, health promotion, acute care, and chronic care.
•MacEwan’s Christenson Family Centre for Sport and Wellness: an on-campus recreation facility featuring fitness, aquatic, and recreation
facilities and programming, from aquatics courses and certification to recreation leagues and fitness courses, classes, and personal training, the
centre boasts numerous ways for students to focus on and support their physical health and well-being.
•MacEwan’s Athletic Therapy Clinic: provides a full suite of services to support patients’ needs, including assessment and treatment of old or
new injuries through to therapeutic massage and post-operative care, as well as teaching strength and conditioning techniques for injury
prevention, rehabilitation, and performance.
#
Page | 13
13
---PDF PAGE 17---
b. Strategic Research Priorities
Outline your institution's strategic research priorities. Describe how these priorities align with provincial strategies (e.g., Alberta 2030: Building 
Skills for Jobs, Alberta Technology and Innovation Strategy, etc.). For each priority area, describe key achievements, and how they have 
contributed to the advancement of your institution’s own strategic research priorities.
•MacEwan's Teaching Greatness: Strategic Vision 2030  affirms the role scholarship plays in delivering a high-quality undergraduate education
and MacEwan has continued to support the growth of scholarship, including research and creative activity, at the institution.
•Throughout the reporting period, the University prioritized working with industry and community partners to grow MacEwan's three
emerging areas of excellence: Health and Wellness in Communities, Persuasive and Immersive Technologies, and Energy and the Environment.
•MacEwan has four Canada Research Chairs (CRCs), Dr. Farzan Baradaran Rahimi, Dr. Leanne Hedberg, Dr. Marielle Papin, and a search is
underway to replace Dr. Kristopher Wells, who was appointed to the Senate of Canada on September 17, 2024.
•MacEwan’s scholarship forwards Alberta 2030: Building Skills for Jobs  by providing research co-authorship opportunities between faculty and
students, funding over 300 research assistantships for students, and supporting work-integrated learning, which is available in 94.5 per cent of
MacEwan’s eligible programs.
#
Page | 14
14
---PDF PAGE 18---
Health and Wellness in Communities:
•Health and wellness research contributes to skill development and innovation in key areas of work with high labour market demand, in 
alignment with Alberta 2030 .
•In alignment with Alberta Technology and Innovation Strategy, MacEwan hosted healthcare and artificial intelligence events with keynote Dr. 
James Canton, a former Apple Computer executive and advisor to three Whitehouse Administrations, contributing to Alberta’s profile as a 
leader in technology and innovation.
•The Research Institute for Urban Wellness is led by Director Dr. Papin, a Tier 2 CRC Chair in Urban Wellness (Urban Governance and Policy). 
Through partnerships and dialogues with grassroots, non-for-profits, governments, and industry stakeholders, the Institute is researching how 
to revitalize public spaces, improve safety, and support vibrant urban life.
•In May 2024, the Institute held its inaugural event, Fostering Understanding and Action on Urban Wellness, bringing together a diversity of 
viewpoints through workshops and a student showcase.
•The Maria T. Schneider Social Innovation Institute is led by Director Dr. Hedberg who, in 2024, was awarded a Tier 2 CRC Chair in Social 
Entrepreneurship. The Institute serves all Faculties and Schools at MacEwan and supports knowledge creation through community-engaged 
initiatives and partnerships such as its partnerships with the Alberta Social Economy Ecosystem Development and Edmonton Unlimited.
•Dr. Hedberg’s research focuses on social innovations, including cross-sector collaborations and inclusive entrepreneurship.
•Additionally, MacEwan’s 2024 Report on Scholarship highlighted faculty research in topics such as Indigenous survivors of the child welfare 
system, health trajectories for older immigrants, medicinal properties of invasive plants, MRI brain image analysis, and student and faculty 
experiences related to assessment in nursing.
•In 2024, MacEwan co-hosted a symposium on Indigenous-led housing innovation with NiGiNan Housing Ventures.
•MacEwan’s on-site daycare is a living lab that has enabled research on the imaginative use of play and has contributed to curriculum 
transformation for early childhood learning in Alberta.
#
Page | 15
15
---PDF PAGE 19---
Persuasive and Immersive Technologies:
•This area of research focus directly aligns with Alberta 2030: Building Skills for Jobs, by exploring and developing new methods to help improve 
student learning experiences and approaches to reduce skill gaps for students entering the field.
•This area of research is also aligned with the Alberta Technology and Innovation Strategy, by supporting Alberta’s technology and innovation 
talent pool and innovation ecosystem.
•For example, since 2020, computer science students at MacEwan have been designing games for a two storey digital installation at the Stanley 
Milner Library, to foster interest in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math learning.
•The Immersive Learning Institute is led by Director Dr. Baradaran Rahimi, who, in 2024, was awarded a Tier 2 CRC Chair in Immersive Learning. 
In May 2025, the Institute celebrated its launch of a new interdisciplinary space dedicated to advancing immersive learning through research, 
teaching, and innovation.
•Dr. Baradaran Rahimi’s research focuses on creating immersive learning environments, experiences, and approaches through innovative 
strategies and emerging technologies like virtual reality, augmented reality, and mixed reality in formal and informal educational contexts.
•From virtual reality simulations in the Faculty of Nursing to virtual placements in the Faculty of Health and Community Studies’ School of Social 
work to research in the Faculty of Arts and Science’s Department of Computer Science exploring persuasive technologies in education as well as 
games and their effectiveness in changing behaviour, MacEwan faculty members are researching and adapting immersive technologies for use in 
the classroom.
Energy and the Environment:
•From Dr. Roland Lee’s hand-held gas chromatograph prototype to Dr. Sam Mugo’s research developing “smart” polymer nanomaterials and
translating technology from use in the lab to use in industry and community, MacEwan faculty’s scholarship yields tangible results in the field.
•MacEwan faculty members working in diverse fields of scholarship across the university engage in research focused on energy and the
environment. From research in the School of Business exploring energy and environmental economics to scholarship investigating agri-food
and environmental sensors, biomass conversion, environmental chemistry, and green chemistry energy and the environment in the Faculty of
Arts and Science’s Department of Physical Sciences, MacEwan faculty members continue to make meaningful impact locally, nationally, and
internationally.
#
Page | 16
16
---PDF PAGE 20---
c. Collaboration with Other Learning Providers
Outline your institution’s collaboration with other learning providers such as First Nations Colleges, publicly funded post-secondary institutions, 
or Private Career Colleges, specific to:
a. Brokered programs
b. Collaborative delivery (satellite or other arrangements)
c. Institution-level research collaborations
d. Learner pathways (e.g., transfer credit for courses/programs)
MacEwan has an extensive variety of collaborations with secondary and post-secondary learning providers in the Edmonton region, the 
province, and beyond, including:the province, and beyond, including:
Brokered programs:
•The School of Business offers BUSN 201:  Introduction to Sustainable Business as a dual-credit course in partnership with St. Mother Margaret
Mary High School, McNally High School, and Queen Elizabeth High School. A Master Agreement with the Sturgeon County Public School Division
has been signed to offer dual credit courses in the future.
•The Faculty of Health and Community Studies offers dual-credit courses for the Edmonton Catholic Separate School Division at St. Joseph
Catholic High School and Archbishop O’Leary High School, and for Northland School Division, Fort McMurray Public, Fort McMurray Catholic,
and High Prairie School Divisions for students considering careers in law enforcement.
•The Faculty of Health and Community Studies partners with the YMCA, with funding from the Government of Alberta, on “The Child Care
Career Accelerator Program,” which allows a cohort of 40 YMCA Level 1 educators to complete 32 credits of coursework at MacEwan, helping
them achieve Level 2 certification.
•The School of Continuing Education partners with Keyano College in Fort McMurray on the delivery of programs such as Project Management,
and Management and Supervision.
•The School of Continuing Education partners with several PSI and community organizations on the development of “Intellectual Property for
the New Innovator” led by Athabasca University and funded by the Government of Alberta.
#
Page | 17
17
---PDF PAGE 21---
Collaborative delivery:
•The Department of Music participates in performer exchanges and co-sponsorships with several post-secondary institutions, including
University of Saskatchewan, University of Alberta, and King's University.
•The Department of Music has a music exchange program with Metropolia University in Finland.
•The Department of Music collaborates with several area high schools. In addition to sponsoring performances, faculty members join high
school ensembles and classes as music clinicians to perform demonstrations, work with students to improve their skills, and assist individuals as
well as groups with technical skills through activities such as demonstration and rehearsal. Participating schools include Harry Ainlay High
School, Queen Elizabeth Composite High School, Ross Shepard High School, Holy Trinity High School, Archbishop MacDonald High School, WP
Wagner High School, and McNally High School.
•The School of Business has partnered with McNally High School for the new Business and Innovation Program as of the Winter 2025 term.
•The Psychology Department collaborates with Elder Dr. Francis Whiskeyjack High School, facilitating guest lectures and presentations by his
advanced students and public figures in psychology.
•The Departments of English and Sociology collaborate with the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy and the Ukrainian Catholic
University (UCU) in Lviv, Ukraine, and organize Collaborative Online International Learning (COIL) programs and courses, and guest lecture
presentations.
•The Physical Sciences Department delivers age-appropriate chemistry demonstrations to students at over 30 institutions including the Alberta
School for the Deaf, amiskwaciy Academy, Archbishop Jordan Catholic High School, Ardrossan Junior Senior High School, Argyll Home School
Centre, Austin O'Brien, Bev Facey Community High School, and St. Francis Xavier.
#
Page | 18
18
---PDF PAGE 22---
Institution-level scholarship collaborations:
•The Department of Music collaborates with multiple colleges and universities, including McGill University, University of Toronto, and Humber
College, on coordinating curriculum and program learning outcomes to promote consistency in music education.
•The School of Business has a joint intercultural student project (INTB 311: Diversity and Intercultural Communication) in collaboration ESCA
Ecole de Management in Morocco, Collegium Civitas in Poland, and American University in Cairo in Egypt.
•The Department of Anthropology, Economics, and Political Science works with international colleagues on a “Europe in the World” project as
part of the Model UN preparatory course; collaborate with students from universities in approximately 100 countries during conferences in
Galapagos, Ecuador; New York City, USA; and Tokyo and Kyushu, Japan; and are also establishing a new collaboration with North-South
University in Bangladesh, focusing on student exchange programs and joint curriculum development opportunities.
•The Faculty of Nursing collaborates with University of the West Indies (UWI) in Jamaica, exploring shared capacity in simulation-based learning
in undergraduate nursing education as well as potential research partnerships.
Learner pathways:
•The Faculty of Fine Arts and Communications has a 60-credit incoming block transfer agreement with NAIT.
•The Faculty of Arts and Science has established Articulation Agreements with numerous colleges in Alberta to create and promote mobility
pathways for students in diploma and university transfer programs to ladder to its BA and BSc programs. The colleges with articulation
agreements include: Keyano College, Norquest College, Red Deer Polytechnic, Bow River College, Lakeland College, and Portage College.
•Student Affairs collaborates with numerous Colleges and Universities across Canada to develop best practices in Access and Disability
Resources, Wellness and Psychological Services, and Career Services, including the University of Calgary, Mount Royal University, University of
Toronto, University of Saskatchewan, Blue Quills, Keyano College, John Abbot College, The King’s University, and NAIT.
#
Page | 19
19
---PDF PAGE 23---
Category
Budgeted 
Amount  Actual Amount  Variance Variance Explanation
Revenue
Government of Alberta 
Grants
$119,043 $118,868 ($175)
Federal Government Grants $1,703 $2,659 $956 
Other Governments Grants $0 $0 $0 
Student Tuition and Fees $117,468 $128,963 $11,494 $6,200 due to increased enrolment in Ministry-approved 
programs, $3,800 enrolment in non-credit programs, and 
$1,400 additional program application fees.
Sales of Services and 
Products
$20,282 $21,805 $1,523 
Donations and Other Grants $1,767 $2,758 $991 
Investment Income
$8,260 $16,802 $8,543 $6,900 one-time gain was realized due to sale of long-
term investments in order to move the investments to a 
new manager; remaining variance is the result of higher 
than anticipated interest rates.
4. Financial Information $000s
Provide your institution's financial reporting for the fiscal year, including approved budget figures, actual results, and audited financial 
statements.
a. Budget Variances
Using the budget submitted to Advanced Education by May 31 st, identify key variances between budgeted statement of operations and actual 
audited results. Provide a detailed explanation for all material variances.
#
Page | 20
20
---PDF PAGE 24---
Other Revenue - Contracts $1,326 $2,770 $1,444 
Total Revenue $269,849 $294,625 $24,776 
Expense
Salaries, Wages and 
Benefits 
$182,130 $189,734 ($7,604) $(1,000) is due to increase in academic research offset by 
government grant funding, and the remainder is due to 
growth in faculty and staff to meet growing student 
numbers.
Salaries and Wages $151,622 $157,818 ($6,196)
Employee Benefits $30,508 $31,916 ($1,408)
Materials, Supplies and 
Services
$60,435 $58,960 $1,475 
Cost of Goods Sold $3,055 $2,781 $274 
Consumption of Inventory 
of Supplies
$0 $0 
Maintenance and Repairs $11,669 $9,424 $2,245 Actual amount includes a credit of $4,400 that is offset 
by contaminated site liability revaluation.
Utilities $5,318 $4,961 $357 
Other Materials, Supplies 
and Services
$40,393 $41,794 ($1,401)
Scholarships, Bursaries and 
Awards
$8,548 $10,187 ($1,639)
Amortization of Capital 
Assets (Non-ARO)
$16,730 $17,319 ($589)
Amortization of Capital 
Assets (ARO)
$0 $4 ($4)
ARO Accretion expense $0 $0 $0 
ARO Expense (TCAs not 
currently capitalized or not 
in productive use)
$0 $0 $0 
Debt Servicing Cost (Interest 
only)
$1,960 $1,960 $0 
#
Page | 21
21
---PDF PAGE 25---
Other Expense (specify) $0 $0 $0 
Total Expense $269,803 $278,164 ($8,361)
Annual Operating Surplus 
(Deficit)
$46 $16,461 $16,415 
Endowment Contributions & 
Capitalized Investment 
Income
$1,000 $975 ($25)
Annual Surplus (Deficit) $1,046 $17,436 $16,390 
YesAudited Financial Statements included in Annual Report?
b. Audited Financial Statements
Ensure your audited financial statements are included in your Annual Report.
#
Page | 22
22
---PDF PAGE 26---
5. Self-generated Revenue $000s
Revenue Source Description  Annual Revenue 
Domestic Tuition General tuition fees - domestic students 88,666$    
International Student Tuition General tuition fees - international students 15,851$    
Mandatory non-instructional 
fees
Student tech, mental health, athletics and health services fees 6,019$    
Special Fees Private instruction and tutor, lab and studio fees 913$    
Program and course fees Sales of course materials fees, off campus study 655$    
Other Mandatory Student Fees Includes various items such as application fees, forfeited deposits, ID fees, late payments and 
interest, exam deferral fees
3,161$    
Subtotal 115,265$   
Report all revenue your institution generates through its various enterprises and activities. Each revenue stream must be categorized and include a 
description of the activity, annual revenue, and profit/loss. Categories include:
a. Tuition and Mandatory Fees
Report all revenue from tuition and mandatory student fees associated with instruction. Examples may include, but are not limited to, domestic tuition, 
international student tuition, continuing education fees, and other mandatory student fees associated with instruction.
Page | 23
23
---PDF PAGE 27---
Revenue Source Description  Annual Revenue 
Cash Donations Net of deferred revenue 1,130$      
Donations In-Kind Non-cash donations - service or assets 811$      
Investment income - non-
endowment
Restricted investment income earned from operating investment portfolio. Includes interest, 
dividends, realized gains from dispositions, interest from SAMU building lease and spent interest 
from grants
13,676$    
Investment income - 
endowments
From endowment investment portfolio, realized endowment gains or losses, net of transfer to 
deferred contributions, FX gain
3,127$      
Fundraising Fundraising 48$    
Subtotal 18,792$    
b. Donations and Investment Income
Report all revenue from donations received and investment income earned. Examples of donations may include, but are not limited to, cash donations 
and donations in-kind. Investment income examples may include, but are not limited to, interest earned, interest earned on endowments and realized 
and unrealized gains and losses. Please also identify if the revenue is restricted or unrestricted.
Page | 24
24
---PDF PAGE 28---
Grant Source Description  Annual Revenue 
Federal Government Research grants 2,152$    
Municipal Government Research grants 1$    
Non government research Research grants 186$    
Subtotal 2,338$    
Grant Source Description  Annual Revenue 
Federal Government 355$    
Grant - non government Grant revenue received from non-government sources. Includes the non-government portion of 
spend deferred capital contributions recognized as revenue
584$    
Municipal Government Various funding efforts such as the back to school Block Party 86$    
c. Research Grants
Report all research grant revenue from external sources, not including grants received from the Province of Alberta. Examples may include but are not 
limited to, grants from not-for-profit organizations, other provincial governments, and businesses.
d. Other Grants
Report all non-research grant revenue from external sources, not including grants received from the Province of Alberta. Examples may include but are 
not limited to, grants from not-for-profit organizations, other provincial governments, and businesses.
Page | 25
25
---PDF PAGE 29---
Federal and municipal grants 
deferred capital contributions
Expended capital funding recognized as revenue 65$    
Subtotal 1,090$    
Service Description  Annual Revenue 
Bookstore New and used books/manuals, course packs, art supplies, digital books, clothing, novelty, giftware, 
stationary and postage
3,539$    
Student Residences Primarily from students, also other guests, includes application fees 6,210$    
Parking Services Parking fees and fines 5,424$    
Commissions From vending and ancillary sales 977$    
Membership and registration Membership and registration 859$    
Rental income Facility, equipment, leaseholds, occupancy costs 1,853$    
Technology Software and equipment 93$    
e. Auxiliary / Ancillary Services
Report revenue from all auxiliary and ancillary operations. Examples may include, but are not limited to, bookstores, student residences, parking services, 
laundry facilities, printing services, sports and recreational facilities, rental services, catering operations, and cafeterias.
Page | 26
26
---PDF PAGE 30---
Food and Beverage Food and beverage 10$    
Other revenue Includes print service revenue, conference and event revenue, FX gain/loss and gain/loss on sale of 
capital assets, admission tickets
1,805$    
Daycare Parent fees and government subsidies 965$    
Fines, finance and admin fees Returned cheque admin fee, fines and penalties - not student tuition or fees related 71$    
Subtotal 21,806$    
Enterprise Description  Annual Revenue 
Continuing Education Fees - 
Domestic
Continuing Education - domestic 907$    
Continuing Education Fees - 
International
Continuing Education - international 12,791$    
Contract programs Private agencies purchasing programs 2,770$    
Subtotal 16,468$    
f. Academic Enterprise
Report revenue from activities that are integral to your institution's educational, research, public service, and campus support functions. These activities 
should align with your academic mission rather than being primarily profit-driven. Examples may include, but are not limited to, continuing education 
programs, culinary school restaurants, agricultural operations, and breweries.
Page | 27
27
---PDF PAGE 31---
Venture Description of Primary Business and Areas of Operation  Annual Revenue 
nilMacEwan University continues to retain the legal entity of a land trust. However, all 
properties are held directly by MacEwan; annual trust returns are filed for the Trust, but they 
are nil returns.
Subtotal -$    
Revenue Source Description of Primary Business and Areas of Operation  Annual Revenue 
Other Source 1 N/A
Subtotal -$    
175,759$    
You can find Advanced Education’s Self-Generated Revenue policy on Campus Alberta Project Site (CAPS).
g. Land Trusts and For-Profit Ventures
Provide information on all revenue-generating subsidiary entities, including a detailed description of each venture's primary business activities and areas 
of operation.
h. Other
Report any additional self-generated revenue not captured in the previous categories. Include clear descriptions of each revenue source.
Grand Total
Page | 28
28
Land Trust 
---PDF PAGE 32---
6. Capital Report $000s
Project 1
School of Business Building – Design and Construction Name
Description Total Project Cost Start Date End Date
School of Business Building – Design and Construction 215,000$   Oct-23 Dec-26
Funding Sources
Source Amount Percentage Received to Date
Government of Alberta 125,000$   58% 15,000$   
Government of Canada -$   0% -$   
Institutional Funds 65,000$   30% 39,872$   
Donations 25,000$   12% 1,448$   
Foundations -$   0% -$   
Industry -$   0% -$   
Total 215,000$   100% 56,320$   
Provide an overview of your institution's capital plan and include the total project costs and detailed funding source breakdowns for each of 
the following categories: Government of Alberta, Government of Canada, institutional funds, donations, foundations, and industry. For each 
funding source category specify the percentage of contribution from each source to each project, and amounts received to date.
Define and describe your top three priority capital projects proceeding within the next three to five years that exceed either $2.5 million or 
50% of your institution's Infrastructure Maintenance Program grant, whichever is greater. These projects may include infrastructure 
supporting high-demand programs, research initiatives, critical health and safety improvements, or essential information technology systems.
a. Top Three Priority Projects
Page | 29
29
---PDF PAGE 33---
Project 2
New Science Expansion and STEM Collegiate Building Project Name
Description Total Project Cost Start Date End Date
New Science Expansion and STEM Collegiate Building Project To be determined Apr-26 Mar-32
Funding Sources
Source Amount Percentage Received to Date
Government of Alberta To be determined To be determined -$   
Government of Canada To be determined To be determined -$   
Institutional Funds To be determined To be determined -$   
Donations To be determined To be determined -$   
Foundations To be determined To be determined -$   
Industry To be determined To be determined -$   
Total -$   0% -$   
Project 3
East Campus Plant Replacement and Expansion Name
Description Total Project Cost Start Date End Date
East Campus Plant Replacement and Expansion 26,000$   Apr-29 Mar-34
Page | 30
30
---PDF PAGE 34---
Funding Sources
Source Amount Percentage Received to Date
Government of Alberta To be determined To be determined -$   
Government of Canada To be determined To be determined -$   
Institutional Funds - internally restricted as at March 31 2025 To be determined To be determined 6,000$   
Donations To be determined To be determined -$   
Foundations To be determined To be determined -$   
Industry To be determined To be determined -$   
Total -$   0% 6,000$   
Name and Description Type Total Cost Current Status
Biology and Chemistry Lab In-fill Project New 6,050$    No funding received 
to date; initial 
estimate only. Test 
fits complete and RFx 
process is in 
progress. 
Faculty and Administration Offices and Workspaces Enhancements. This is 
a multi-year, phased project primarily focused on faculty growth. 
Expansion 9,960$    MacEwan self-
funded, $2,331 spent 
to date. 
Classroom Relocation and Expansion. This is a multi-year phased project to 
add classrooms on campus.
Expansion 2,500$    MacEwan self-
funded, $936 spent 
to date. 
Document all active and proposed capital projects, including maintenance, expansion, and new construction initiatives.
b. All Other Projects
Page | 31
31
---PDF PAGE 35---
Development of decanted spaces post- new School of Business building. 
Restack and functional programming studies on-going for various faculties 
and departments, including Student Services.
Expansion 15,000$    Initial estimate only. 
$100 spent to date; 
Macewan self-
funded. Restack 
studies are complete 
for two buildings. 
Interior Lock Replacement Project, phased installation plan. Maintenance 4,100$    $2,519 GoA (CMR 
funding) applied to 
date. All buildings, 
with the exception of 
Buildings 6 and 7, are 
complete. 
High Voltage Switchgear Maintenance 22,800$    No funding received 
to date. Schmatic 
design is complete 
and this initial 
estimate is based on 
the schematic design. 
Full design 
development is in 
progress.
Construction and 
installation timelines 
to be determined. 
Shipping Receiving Glycol Loop Replacement Maintenance 2,875$   
 No spending to date. 
Design is complete. 
63,285$   Total
Page | 32
32
---PDF PAGE 36---
7. Mandatory Non-instructional Fees (MNIF) Reporting $000s
Fee Name Supported Goods / Services  Budgeted Amount  Actual Amount Variance Explanation
Medical Clinic Fee This fee supports Health Services for 
all students. Students who need 
medical support may make an 
appointment at the MacEwan 
University Health Centre.
Revenue $416
Expenses $446
Revenue $461
Expenses $392
 Higher than budgeted enrolment 
along with lower than budgeted 
operating costs. The university is 
currently funding an expansion to 
the medical clinic to allow for an 
increased intake volume in 25/26. 
Mandatory non-instructional fees (MNIFs) are paid by students to support specific goods and services that enhance the student experience. 
MNIFs are:
· not tuition fees as defined in the Tuition and Fees Regulation;
· required to complete programs approved under the Programs of Study Regulation, established under the Skilled Trades and Apprenticeship
Education Act , or approved under the Student Financial Assistance Act ;
· not membership fees for a student organization; and
· are cost-recovery based.
PSIs must report on MNIFs to demonstrate compliance with Section 61(5) of the PSLA and Section 7(1) of the Tuition and Fees Regulation. This 
reporting ensures transparency regarding the cost-recovery nature of these fees and verifies that goods and services supported by each MNIF 
are related.
a. MNIF Financial Summary
For each MNIF provide the name of the fee, identify all specific goods and/or services supported by the fee, the budget and actual amounts for 
all specific goods and/or services for the reporting period and provide a brief explanation for any significant variances between budget and 
actual amounts.
Page | 33
33
---PDF PAGE 37---
Mental Health Fee This fee supports the provision of 
mental health and wellness services 
available to students, including 
mental health treatment and 
support, and health promotion and 
community-building initiatives.
Revenue $610
Expenses $1,933
Revenue $691
Expenses $2,236
 Higher than budgeted enrolment 
netted against an increase in staff 
providing mental health services. 
The staffing increase is required as a 
result of both increased student 
counts as well as a higher 
percentage of students requiring 
support. 
Registrarial Service Fee This fee covers a variety of services 
offered by the Office of the 
University Registrar, including but 
not limited to Application to 
Graduate, Parchment Replacement, 
Confirmation Letters and 
Undergraduate Transcripts.
Revenue $657
Expenses $907
Revenue $758
Expenses $927
 Higher than budgeted enrolment. 
Sport and Wellness Fee MacEwan University supports the 
value of developing the whole 
person by providing students with 
opportunities to grow intellectually, 
socially, personally and physically. 
The Sport and Wellness fee provides 
students a membership to Sport and 
Wellness, funding for Recreation 
programming and Griffins Athletics.
Revenue $4,905
Expenses $7,326
Revenue $5,220
Expenses $7,532
 Higher than budgeted enrolment. 
Page | 34
34
---PDF PAGE 38---
Information Technolgy 
Fee
This fee was established to fund 
technology projects that specifically 
result in providing new or improved 
technology services that benefit 
students.
Revenue $1,272
Expenses $2,069
Revenue $1,007
Expenses $188
Technology projects were delayed 
due to a lack of meaningful 
initiatives to fund, leading to the fee 
being waived for the Winter 
semester 24/25 as well as waived 
for the entire 25/26 school year. 
The university is meeting with 
students in 25/26 to agree on the 
best use of these funds.
Revenue $7,860
Expenses $12,681
Revenue $8,137
Expenses $11,275Total
Page | 35
35
---PDF PAGE 39---
No
Fee Name Description of Change
 Written Approval 
from Student 
Councils (Date) 
N/A
 Consultation Process 
Were any new MNIFs introduced or existing MNIFs 
substantively changed during the reporting period?
Note: For any new or substantively changed MNIF, confirm that written approval was obtained from each of the institution's students' councils as required 
under Section 61(6) of the PSLA, and that appropriate consultation was conducted with student organizations prior to implementation.
If YES, provide the following information:
b. Compliance Statement
Confirm whether any new MNIFs were introduced or existing MNIFs substantively changed (including changes to scope of goods/services or 
student population) during the reporting period. For any new or substantively changed MNIF, confirm that written approval was obtained from 
each of the institution's students' councils as required under Section 61(6) of the PSLA, and that appropriate consultation was conducted with 
student organizations prior to implementation.
Page | 36
36
---PDF PAGE 40---
Has your institution amended its free speech policy during the 2024-25 fiscal year? No
b. Cancelled Events
During the reporting period, were any events at your institution cancelled for reasons related to free speech? No
c. Free Speech-Related Complaints
d. Additional Information
8. Free Speech Reporting
Provide any additional concerns in relation to campus free speech that are not captured in the above.
N/A
The Office of General Counsel is not aware of any university events that were cancelled during the 2024-25 fiscal year for reasons related to free speech. 
N/A
If YES:
 Provide the event name and originally scheduled date
 Explain why the event was cancelled
 Detail the decision making process and policies considered, and how it was resolved.
 If any complaints arose from the event’s cancellation, please provide further details regarding the complaints under section c. 
Describe any complaints related to free speech policies within the time frame including number of complaints, description, context and 
complaint resolutions.
If YES, please detail any amendments made to the policy during the reporting period.
During the 2024-25 fiscal year one anonymous complaint was submitted through our Confidence Line by a student regarding protest activities and allegations 
of surveillance. The complaint described this as discriminatory and harassing to Muslim and Arab students. The complaint was reviewed and video 
surveillance is part of the overall plan to ensure the safety of everyone, and specific people or groups were not targeted. No further action was required.
Please provide the URL where your institution’s free speech policy is posted.
https://www.macewan.ca/c/policies/free_expression_on_campus.pdf
a. Free Speech Policy Information
#
Page | 37
37
---PDF PAGE 41---
a. Have all current board members completed for-profit ventures training? No
b. When did current board members last complete for-profit ventures training? 2016
Provide an overview of the training opportunities for board members on for-profit ventures, including responses to the questions below and a 
description of training materials. Include relevant materials as a separate attachment.
9. Board of Governors Training on For-profit Ventures
c. Provide a brief description of the training materials used and include relevant materials as a separate attachment.
MacEwan provides orientation to the Board annually, and the Board reviews professional development needs on an annual basis. 
MacEwan assesses the skills and experience of the Board through our skills matrix. Each year, MacEwan provides orientation and 
educational/professional development for Board of Governors members based on an assessment of the strategic priorities of MacEwan 
University.
When MacEwan created a Land Trust in 2016, the Board of Governors were provided training related to for-profit ventures. However, the land 
trust has been shelved since 2019.
#
Page | 38
38
---PDF PAGE 42---
TEACHING GREATNESS: 
STRATEGIC VISION 2030 
March 2025 Bi-annual Dashboard Update 
Attachment for submission with MacEwan University’s Annual Report 
Page | 39
39
---PDF PAGE 43---
Contents 
EXPLANATORY NOTE  
STRATEGIC VISION DASHBOARD 
Endnotes  
IMPACT OF TEACHING GREATNESS (DASHBOARD UPDATE, MARCH 2025) 
1.1 – Teaching Greatness  
1.2 – Smash the Calendar  
1.3 – Grand as a Griffin  
1.4 – Perpetual Motion  
1.5 – Trendsetters and Trendbreakers  
1
.6 – Honouring our P lace in O’day-min 
Page | 40
40
---PDF PAGE 44---
Explanatory Note 
MacEwan University’s strategic vision, Teaching Greatness: Strategic Vision 2030, articulates MacEwan’s ten-year strategy and its 
central focus on providing an exceptional undergraduate experience. It is guided by five strategic directions— teaching greatness, 
smash the calendar, grand as a Griffin, perpetual motion, and trendsetters and trendbreakers. A sixth direction, honouring our place 
in O-day’min, cuts across all other strategic directions and reflects MacEwan’s role in the heart of Edmonton.  
MacEwan’s Strategic Vision Dashboard includes a selection of Board-approved metrics to measure and communicate progress made 
toward each of its strategic directions. The dashboard is updated twice during the year: annually in the fall (September/October), and 
a mid-year year report in March. The information in the attachment is the most current and is accurate as of March 3, 2025. 
The Dashboard herein is attached as part of MacEwan’s 2024-2025 Annual Report, in response to direction in the Annual Report 
Guidelines. The dashboard-update below was provided to the board in March 2025, aligns with the end of the fiscal year, and is 
complemented by MacEwan’s responses in the three sections below specifically requested by Advanced Education in the new 
Guidelines. 
Note: All metrics in the Dashboard are officially updated once a year in the Fall (September/October), when the various annual 
cycles (academic year, fiscal year, reporting year, etc) coincide for a clear ‘snap-shot in time’ of the various data elements. Of the 
metrics that are updated for the mid-year report in March, some will be finalized after the academic year concludes in April, while 
others are considered preliminary, as they will only be considered official after the final LERS report is submitted and certified by 
Advanced Education in the Summer. 
MacEwan’s strategic vision, dashboard, and related information and updates can be found at: 
https://www.macewan.ca/about-macewan/strategic-vision/ 
Page | 41
41
---PDF PAGE 45---
Strategic Vision Dashboard 
TEACHING GREATNESS: STRATEGIC VISION 2030 
 
Direction Measure Target 
What is our focus? How do we define progress? i What will we achieve? 
1. Teaching 
Greatness 
1.1 Student Satisfactionii  1.1A Maintain or exceed graduating student satisfaction at 80% 
1.1B Maintain or exceed alumni satisfaction at 80% 
1.2 Instruction Maintain the percentage of Associate and Full Professors teaching first-
year courses above 50%  
1.3 Student Fundingiii Increase total external funds raised for student awards from 1.4M to 4.5M 
by 2025  
Increase total external funds raised for student awards from 1.4M to 
14.2M by 2030 
2. Smash the 
Calendar 
2.1 Micro-credentialsiv Developed 7 micro-credentials will be developed by 2025 
14 micro-credentials will be developed by 2030 
2.2 Micro-credential Enrollments 150 students will have enrolled in micro-credentials by 2025 
1000 students will have enrolled in micro-credentials by 2030 
2.3 Experience Recordsv Establish a baseline by end of 2023 
50% of MacEwan students will have an Experience Record by 2025 
100% of MacEwan students will have an Experience Record by 2030 
2.4 Spring-Summer Course 
Offerings 
Increase number of senior-levelvi courses offered in spring-summer term 
by 10% by 2025 
Increase number of senior-level courses offered in spring-summer term 
by 25% by 2030 
2.5 Spring-Summer Enrollmentsvii Increase number of spring-summer enrollments to 1,500 Full Load 
Equivalents (FLEs) by 2025 
Increase number of spring-summer enrollments to 2,400 FLEs by 2030 
Page | 42
42
---PDF PAGE 46---
3. Grand as a
Griffin
3.1 Availability of Work Integrated 
Learning (WIL)viii 
82% of programs will have a WIL component by 2025 
100% of programs will have a WIL component by 2030 
3.2 Student Participation in WILix Establish a baseline for how many students are enrolled in WIL by the 
end of 2023 
25% of students will have taken a course with WIL by 2025 
75% of students will have taken a course with WIL by 2030 
3.3 Student Satisfaction with WIL Establish a baseline for student satisfaction with WIL by the end of 2023 
Students reporting satisfaction with WIL meets or exceeds 80% by 2030 
4. Perpetual
Motion
4.1 Total Full Load Equivalents 
(FLEs) 
Increase the student population to 14,200 FLEs by 2025 
Increase the student population to 20,000 FLEs by 2030 
4.2 Indigenous Student 
Enrollmentx 
Maintain the Indigenous student population at or above 6% of domestic 
enrollments by 2025 
Maintain the Indigenous student population at or above 8% of domestic 
enrollments by 2030 
4.3 International Student 
Enrollment 
Increase the international student population to meet or exceed 6% of 
total enrollments by 2025 
Increase the international student population to meet or exceed 10% of 
total enrollments by 2030 
4.4 Student Funding (EDI) Increase total funding allocated to equity-deservingxi groups to 1.35M by 
2025 
Increase total funding allocated to equity-deserving groups to 5.9M by 
2030 
5. Trendsetters &
Trendbreakers
5.1 Research Funding Increase total external research dollars awarded to faculty from 1.3M to 
2.5M by 2025 
Increase total external research dollars awarded to faculty from 1.3M to 
5M by 2030 
5.2 Centers of Excellence (CRCs) Increase to 4 Centers of Excellence by 2025 
Increase to 6 Centers of Excellence by 2030 
5.3 Research Assistantshipsxii 375 students per year will receive funding to engage in scholarly activity 
through a research assistantship by 2025 
500 students per year will receive funding to engage in scholarly activity 
through a research assistantship by 2030 
Page | 43
43
---PDF PAGE 47---
6. Honouring
our Place in
O-day’minxiii
6.1 Indigenous Student 
Retentionxiv 
Retention rates for Indigenous students will be within 2% of non-
Indigenous students by 2025 
Retention rates for Indigenous students will be aligned with non-
Indigenous students by 2030 
6.2 Indigenous Faculty Indigenous faculty will be within 3% of the Indigenous student % of 
domestic enrollment 2025 
Indigenous faculty will be aligned with the Indigenous student % of 
domestic enrollment by 2030 
6.3 Equity-Deserving Faculty Establish baseline data for faculty who report belonging to an equity-
deserving group by 2025 
TBD 
Page | 44
44
---PDF PAGE 48---
Endnotes
i Some metrics correspond to MacEwan University’s Investment Management Agreement (IMA) with the Government of Alberta. Specifically, these 
metrics include Availability of WIL, Total FLEs, International Student Enrollment, and Indigenous Student Enrollment. These metrics may change based 
on future IMA negotiations.  
ii Data on student satisfaction are collected through two instruments: 1) The Alumni Survey and 2) The Graduand Survey. The Alumni Survey is distributed 
to those who have attended MacEwan within the last 15 years, and the Graduand Survey is distributed to those who have successfully applied to graduate. 
Both surveys contain the following question – assessed on a Likert scale  - related to overall student satisfaction: Overall, I would recommend MacEwan to 
a friend, colleague, or family member. The Alumni Survey is distributed annually, and The Graduand Survey is distributed semi- annually upon completion 
of the fall and winter academic terms. The Spring 2023 Snapshot features results from the spring and fall 2022 Graduand Survey, and the winter 2023 
Alumni Survey.  
iii We are measuring the growth in total external dollars raised for student awards from a baseline of 1.4M. This reflects the use of fiscal 2023 as a baseline 
for growing our fundraising achievement, excluding planned gifts due to their variability. 
iv MacEwan defines micro-credentials as a small set of competencies gained through participation in a learning experience focused on achieving knowled ge 
or a specific skill.   It can be a component of other credentials or a stand -alone certification. Micro-credentials are aligned with the needs of business and 
industry. They are competency -based, transferable, and stackable. Since micro -credentials are an emergent trend in Canadian higher education, it is hard 
to predict the pace of their development and student enrollments will be.  
v The Experience Record (ER) is currently being developed from the existing Co-curricular Record (CCR). The ER is an official record of student 
experience across academics, athletics, and community service. It allows for a broader array of experiences to be captured in alignment with The Universal 
Competency Framework. In prior years, the average number of CCR positions or opportunities offered per year was approximately 100, and there were 
approximately 300 unique participants. 
vi At MacEwan, ‘senior level’ is defined as 2xx, 3xx, and 4xx level courses. 
vii These data are generated using an Academic Year as opposed to the Learner and Enrolment Reporting System (LERS) reporting year. A close 
examination of the data will show some variance to official Ministry mandated LERS data. 
viii MacEwan’s IMA includes Availability of WIL as one of its metrics. Our mid-term (2025) target is aligned with the IMA target.   
ix There are two types of WIL opportunities for students: WIL placements and project-based WIL.  
x The increase in the percentage of the Indigenous student population to 6% by 2025 and 8% by 2030 aligns with predictions for growth of the Indigenous 
population in the Edmonton Metro region, which is slightly higher than the projected provincial average. 
xi MacEwan’s commitment to advancing equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) is reflected through the use of the term “equity-deserving.” Equity-deserving 
groups face significant barriers to participation in higher education and society based on systems of power associated with attributes such as race, colour, 
religion, sex, gender, age, dis/ability, and national or ethnic origin. 
xii It is not feasible to capture all scholastic activities that students engage in. In turn, we have identified student participation in paid Research 
Assistantships as being a strong indicator of how our students are engaged in strengthening the value MacEwan adds to community through scholarship.  
xiii MacEwan is working toward advancing equity, diversity, and inclusion among our faculty. As part of this work, the Office of Institutional Analysis and 
Planning is enhancing the quality of data on EDI. Currently, all EDI data is gathered through a system of self -reporting. There has been a low response rate 
from the university community, impacting our ability to establish baseline data. Over the next fiscal year, we will be working to promote the self -reporting 
tool with the goal of increasing the response rate to reflect a statistically significant proportion of the population.  
xiv The retention of students from first year to second year is one of the strongest indicators of completion for students in post-secondary. This measure 
provides an early signal of a student’s probability of completion in a program of two or more years in length. 
Page | 45
45
---PDF PAGE 49---
Impact of Teaching Greatness (Dashboard Update, March 2025) 
1.1 – Teaching Greatness 
Measure 2025 Targets Results (as of March 2025) 
(1.1) Student 
satisfaction 
• Maintain or exceed
graduating student
satisfaction at 80%.
• Maintain or exceed
alumni satisfaction at
80%.
Achieved 
• 85% of students graduating in Spring or Fall 2024 indicated they 
would recommend MacEwan.
• 93% of alumni surveyed in Fall 2024 would recommend MacEwan—u p 
4% from the previous report.
(1.2) Instruction 
• Maintain the percentage
of Associate and Full
Professors teaching first-
year courses above 50%.
On Track 
• No change from last update; this metric is updated in the Fall.
• MacEwan continues to be on track to maintain above 50% of Associate
and Full-time Professors teaching First-Year course offerings. 
• In 2023-24, 58% of MacEwan Professors and Associate Professors taught 
first-year course offerings.
• The reporting methodology was adjusted in 2024 to include 200 & 300 
level courses that are introductory courses the School of Business.
(1.3) Student 
funding  
• Increase total external 
funds raised for student 
awards from $1.4 to 
$4.5 million.
Ac
hieved 
• Since 2020-21, MacEwan has raised a total of $6.7 million in external 
funding for student awards.
• In the current fiscal year (2024-25), we have raised more than $692,000 
for student awards as of February 1, 2025.
Page | 46
46
---PDF PAGE 50---
1.2 – Smash the Calendar 
Measure 2025 Targets Results 
(2.1) Micro-
credentials 
developed  
• 7 micro-credentials
d
eveloped by 2025.
Achieved 
• To date, MacEwan has developed 11 micro-credentials.
• By April 2025, the two most recently developed micro-credentials, Social
Entrepreneurship and Project Management Essentials, will be launched.
• School of Continuing Education will launch an Entrepreneur
Fundamentals Certificate, MacEwan’s first certificate of stacked micro-
credentials in April 2025.
(2.2) Micro-
credential 
enrolments 
• 150 students will have
enroled in micro-
credentials by 2025.
Achieved 
• We have 186 enrolments in micro-credential programs as of February 
2025.
• Including micro-credentials in international professional development 
certificate programs continues to be attractive to international students.  
With 166 more enrolments this fall, our international enrolments in 
micro-credentials now total 611 to date.
• When taking this innovation into account, our cumulative micro-
credential enrolments total 797, well on our way to our goal of 1,000 by 
2030.
 (2.3) Experience 
Records 
• Establish a baseline by
end of 2023.
• 50% of MacEw
an
s
tudents have an
E
xperience Record by
2025.
Achieved 
• 100% of students enroled in a degree and/or diploma program have a
S
tudent Experience Record on MacEwan Life.
• Students have 337 verified opportunities available to choose from for
their Student Experience Record.
• 16% of enroled students (3,891 in 90% of programs) are actively using
their student experience record, 63% of whom are in their first year of
studies.
Page | 47
47
---PDF PAGE 51---
(2.4) Spring-
Summer course 
offerings 
• Increase the number of
senior-level courses
offered in Spring-
Summer term by 10% by
2025.
On Track
• No change from last update; this metric is updated in the Fall.
• There was a small increase in the total number of course offerings for 
Spring-Summer 2024, increasing to 211 from 207 in the Spring-Summer 
of 2023.
(2.5) Spring-
Summer enrolments 
• Increase the number of 
Spring-Summer 
enrolments to 1,500 
Full Load Equivalents 
(FLEs) by 2025.
On Trac
k 
• Preliminary estimates for Spring-Summer 2024 are showing a 10%
increase year-over-year, which means we are tracking to meet and exceed 
the 2025 target of 1,500 FLEs.
• The final figure will be confirmed in the Fall.
1.3 – Grand as a Griffin 
Measure 2025 Targets Results 
(3.1) Availability of 
Work Integrated 
Learning (WIL) 
• 82% of programs will
have a WIL component
by 2025.
Achieved 
• The number of programs at the university with a WIL component is
94.5%. This percentage does not include the 4 exempt programs.
• Opportunities for WIL are currently being developed in 4 of the 5
outstanding programs, and we expect some of those programs to have
WIL components by 2025-26.
Page | 48
48
---PDF PAGE 52---
(3.2) Student 
participation in WIL 
• Establish a baseline for
h
ow many students are
enroled in WIL by the
e nd of 2023.
• 25% of students will have
taken a course with WIL
by 2025.
On Track 
• 24% of MacEwan students have completed a WIL component since w
e
sta
rted tracking in 2023.
• We are well on track to reach the 25% target by the end of 2025.
(3.3) Student 
satisfaction with 
WIL 
• Establish a baseline for
stu
dent satisfaction with
WIL by the end of 2023.
On Track 
• Ac cording to the November 2024 Alumni Strategic Scorecard Survey,
78% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that WIL had a positive
impact on their employment.
• We continue to work towards the goal of improving the satisfaction rate
to 80% by 2030.
1.4 – Perpetual Motion 
Measure 2025 Targets Results 
(4.1) Total Full 
Load Equivalents 
• I ncrease the student
p
opulation to 14,200
FLEs by 2025.
On Track 
• Preliminary estimates for MacEwan’s total FLEs for 2024-25 are showing
a 7% increase compared to last year,
• This means we are tracking to meet and exceed the target of 14,200 FLEs.
(4.2) Indigenous 
student enrolment 
• Maintain the Indigenous
student population at or
a
bove 6% of domestic
enrolments by 2025.
Achieved 
• Preliminary estimates for 2024-25 are showing Indigenous student
enrolment to be 6.9% of total enrolment, a slight increase since the last
u
pdate.
• Figures are based on self-identified Indigenous students, and the ratio is
consistent with available data for previous years.
Page | 49
49
---PDF PAGE 53---
(4.3) International 
student enrolment 
• Increase the
international student
population to meet or
exceed 6% of total
enrolments by 2025.
On Track 
• Preliminary estimates for 2024-2025 international enrolments are
tracking marginally below target. We anticipate the international
headcount for 2024-25 to be 5.3% of total enrolment, or 0.7% below the
2025 target of 6%.
• We are implementing plans to deal with the challenges, and are aiming to
reach the 2030 target of 10%.
• Prior to changes to immigration policies made by the Federal government
in early 2024, the trend was indicating steady growth toward pre-
pandemic international student rates.
(4.4) Student 
funding (EDI) 
• Increase total funding 
allocated to equity-
deserving groups to 
$1.35 million by 2025.
On Tr
ack 
• MacEwan’s Student’s First campaign has raised a total of $1.15 
million in funds earmarked for equity-deserving students.
• In the current fiscal year (2024-25) so far, we have raised $37,000 
targeted for equity-deserving students.
1.5 – Trendsetters and Trendbreakers 
Measurable 2025 Targets Results 
(5.1) Research 
Funding 
• Increase total external 
research dollars awarded 
to faculty from $1.3 
million to $2.5 million by 
2025.
Ac
hieved 
• From April 2024 to January 2025, we have secured 30 external grants, 
totalling $2,805,192.
Page | 50
50
---PDF PAGE 54---
(5.2) Centres of 
Excellence 
• Increase to 4 Centres by
2025.
Achieved 
• Effective January 2025, the Immersive Learning Institute was established 
as MacEwan’s fourth COE, under the leadership of a recent Canada 
Research Chair.
• Existing COEs include the Centre for Sexual and Gender Diversity, Social 
Innovation Institute, and Research Institute for Urban Wellness.
(5.3) Research 
Assistantships 
• 375 students per year will
receive funding to engage
in scholarly activity
through a research
assistantship by 2025.
On Track 
• The number of students receiving funding to engage in scholar activity 
through a research assistantship continues to grow steadily.
• Between April 1, 2024, and February 14, 2025, 321 students received 
funding through research assistantships, which is a 53% increase from 
this time last year and indicates we are on track to meet and surpass our 
target within the first half of fiscal 2025-26.
1.6 – H onouring our Place in O’day-min 
Measurable 2025 Targets Results 
(6.1) Indigenous 
student retention 
• Retention ra tes for
Indigenous students will
be within 2% of non-
Indigenous students by
2025.
On Track 
• No change from last update; this metric is updated in the Fall.
• MacEwan retention rates for students who self-identify as Indigenous are
on track to be within 2% by 2025.
Not Reported Self-Identified Difference 
2020 cohort 80.0% 75.7% -4.3%
2021 cohort 79.8% 73.0% -6.8%
2022 cohort 82.7% 80.0% -2.7%
Page | 51
51
---PDF PAGE 55---
(6.2) Indigenous 
faculty 
• Indigenous faculty will
be within 3% of the
Indigenous student % of
domestic enrolment by
2025.
In Progress 
• No change from last update.
• MacEwan has made 4 kihêw waciston faculty cross-hires.
• Work continues toward increasing self-reporting rates with faculty and
students, and towards establishing a baseline to measure progress toward
metrics 6.2 and 6.3.
(6.3) Equity-
deserving faculty 
• Establish a baseline data
for faculty who report
belonging to an equity-
deserving group by 2025.
In Progress 
• No change from last update.
• Work continues toward increasing self-reporting rates with faculty and
students, and towards establishing a baseline to measure progress toward
metrics 6.2 and 6.3.
Page | 52
52
---PDF PAGE 56---
Cons
olidated Financial Statements 
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Page | 53
53
---PDF PAGE 57---
M
acE
wan University 
Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the year ended March 31, 2025 
CONTE
NTS 
Statement of Management Responsibility 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
Consolidated Statement of Operations  
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets 
Consolidated Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Page | 54
54
---PDF PAGE 58---
MacEwan University 
Statement of Management Responsibility 
For the year ended March 31, 2025 
The consolidated financial statements of MacEwan University (the “university”) have been prepared by management in 
accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards as described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The consolidated financial statem ents present fairly the financial position of the university as at March 31, 2025, and the 
results of its operations, remeasurement gains and losses, changes in net financial assets and cash flows for the year then 
ended. 
In fulfilling its responsibilities and recognizing the limits inherent in all systems, management has developed and maintains a 
system of internal control designed to provide reasonable assurance that university assets are safeguarded from loss and that 
the accounting records are a reliable basis for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. 
The Board of Governors is responsible for reviewing and approving the consolidated financial statements and overseeing 
management’s performance of its financial reporting responsibilities. 
The Board of Governors carries out its responsibility for review of the consolidated financial statements principally through its 
Audit and Risk Committee. With the exce ption of the President, all members of  the Audit and Risk Committee are not 
employees of the university. The Audit and Risk Committee m eets with management and the external auditors and internal 
auditors to discuss the results of audit exam inations and financial reporting matters. The external and internal auditors have 
full access to the Audit and Risk Committee, with and without the presence of management.  
These consolidated financial statements have been reported on by the Auditor Gene ral of Alberta, the external auditor 
appointed under the Post-secondary Learning Act . The Independent Auditor’s Report outlines the scope of the audit and 
provides the audit opinion on the fairness of presentation of the information in the consolidated financial statements.  
[Original signed by Annette Trimbee, PhD]  [Or iginal signed by Maureen Lomas, CMA, CPA] 
President and Vice-Chancellor Vice-President, Finance & Administration  
and Chief Financial Officer 
Page | 55
55
---PDF PAGE 59---
Independent Auditor’s Report 
To the Board of Governor
s of Grant MacEwan University 
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Opinion	
I have audited the consolidated financi
al statements of MacEwan University (the Group), which 
comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at March 31, 2025, and the 
consolidated statements of operations, remeasurement gains and losses, changes in net financial 
assets, and cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
In my opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material 
respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as at March 31, 2025, and the results of its 
operations, its remeasurement gains and losses, its changes in net financial assets, and its cash 
flows for the year then ended in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards. 
Basis	for	opinion	
I conducted my audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards. My 
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's	Responsibilities	for	the	
Audit	of	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements section of my report. I am independent of the Group in 
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to my audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in Canada, and I have fulfilled my other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for my opinion.  
Other	information		
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Annual	Report, but does not include the consolidated financial 
statements and my auditor’s report thereon. The Annual	Report is expected to be made available to 
me after the date of this auditor’s report.  
My opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and I do 
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
In connection with my audit of the consolidated financial statements, my responsibility is to read 
the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is 
materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or my knowledge obtained in the 
audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.  
If, based on the work I will perform on this other information, I conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, I am required to communicate the matter to those charged 
with governance. 
Page | 56
56
---PDF PAGE 60---
Responsibi
lities	of	management	and	those	charged	with	governance	for	the	consolidated	
financial	statements		
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal 
control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless an intention exists to liquidate or to 
cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so.  
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting 
process.   
Auditor's	responsibilities	for	the	audit	of	the	consolidated	financial	statements	
My objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor's report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of 
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Canadian generally 
accepted auditing standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these consolidated financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards, I exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. I also: 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statem
ents,
whether du
e to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidenc
e that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion.
The risk of not detecting 
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
 Obtain an understanding of 
internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
procedures t
hat are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reason
ableness of accounting
estimates and related dis
closures made by management.
 Conclude o
n the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting
and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to
events or co
nditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going
concern. 
If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such
disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify my opinion. My conclusions are based on the audit
evidence
 obtained up to the date of my auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions
may caus
e the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
 Evaluate the 
overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial
statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements
represent t
he underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Page | 57
57
---PDF PAGE 61---
 Plan 
and perform the group audit to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the
financial information of the entities or business units within the Group as 
a basis for forming an
opinion 
on the group financial statements. I am responsible for the direction, supervision and
review 
of the audit work performed for purposes of the group audit. I remain solely responsible
for my audit opinion.
I communicate with those charged with governanc
e regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that I identify during my audit. 
[Original signed by W. Doug Wylie FCPA, FCMA, ICD.D] 
Auditor General 
May 29, 2025 
Edmonton, Alberta 
Page | 58
58
---PDF PAGE 62---
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
MacEwan University 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
As at March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
Contract
ual rights and agreements (Note 16) 
Contingent liabilities and contractual obligations (Notes 15 and 17) 
Approved by the Board of Governors (Note 23) 
2025 2024
FINANCIA L A SSETS, 
excluding portfolio investments restricted for endowments
Cash (Note 3) 58,880$   87,033$   
Portfolio investments - non-endowment (Note 4) 109,740   97,158   
Finance lease receivable (Note 6) 19,254   20,048   
Accounts receivable 7,189   6,785   
Inventories held for sale 1,341   1,177   
196,404   212,201   
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 48,052   41,201   
Employee future benefit liabilities (Note 7) 6,580   6,210   
Debt (Note 8) 45,925   50,358   
Deferred revenue (Note 9) 72,384   62,327   
Liability for contaminated sites (Note 12) 7,379   11,693   
Asset retirement obligations (Note 13) 835   804   
181,155   172,593   
Net financial asset,
 excluding portfolio investments restricted for endowments
15,249   39,608   
Portfolio investments - restricted for endowments (Note 4) 58,342   57,367   
Net financial assets 73,591   96,975   
NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
Tangible capital assets and purchased intangibles (Note 10) 451,267   408,241   
Prepaid expenses 7,219   6,292   
458,486   414,533   
Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions 532,077   511,508   
Spent deferred capital contributions (Note 11) 132,795   127,545   
Net assets (Note 14) 399,282$   383,963$   
Net assets is comprised of:
Accumulated surplus 380,504$   363,068$   
Accumulated remeasurement gains 18,778   20,895   
399,282$   383,963$   
Page | 59
59
---PDF PAGE 63---
The 
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
MacEwan University 
Consolidated Statement of Operations 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
Budget 2025 2024
(Note 22)
REVENUES
Government of Alberta grants (Note 20) 119,043$      118,868$    119,433$    
Federal and other government grants (Note 20) 1,703   2,659   2,038   
Student tuition and fees 117,468   128,963    112,770    
Sales of services and products 20,282    21,805   21,343   
Contract programs 1,326   2,770   2,054   
Donations and other grants 1,767   2,758   1,878   
Investment income 8,260   16,802   11,552   
Gain on sale of Alberta College Campus -   18,859   
269,849   294,625    289,927    
EXPENSES (Note 18)
Instruction 96,174   99,566   90,559   
Academic support 27,396   26,113   24,165   
Student support 31,729   37,005   33,672   
Administration 25,160   25,295   21,557   
Computing and communications 21,514   21,335   18,574   
Facility operations and maintenance 37,808   37,594   42,093   
Ancillary Services 19,295   20,891   19,445   
Other 10,727   10,365   10,040   
269,803   278,164    260,105   
46    16,461   29,822   
Endowment contributions 1,000   975    1,187   
Annual surplus 1,046   17,436   31,009   
363,068   363,068    332,059    
364,114$      380,504$    363,068$    
Annual operating surplus
Accumulated surplus, beginning of year
Accumulated surplus, end of year (Note 14)
Page | 60
60
---PDF PAGE 64---
T
he accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
MacEwan University 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Financial Assets 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
Budget 2025 2024
(Note 22)
Annual surplus 1,046$   17,436$   31,009$   
Acquisition of tangible capital assets and purchased 
intangibles (Note 10) (45,224)   (60,395)   (41,236)   
Amortization of tangible capital assets and purchased 
intangibles (Note 10) 16,730   17,322   17,098   
Proceeds from sale of tangible capital assets and 
purchased intangibles 99   13   
(Gain) Loss on disposal of tangible capital assets 
and purchased intangibles -    (52)   (17,327)   
Proceeds from sale of Alberta College Campus -    -   22,000   
(Increase) decrease in prepaid expenses -    (927)    251    
Increase in spent deferred capital contributions -    5,250   1,541   
(Decrease) increase in accumulated remeasurement 
gains   (2,117)   4,504   
(Decrease) increase in net financial assets (27,448)   (23,384)   17,853   
Net financial assets, beginning of year 96,975   96,975   79,122   
Net financial assets, end of year 69,527$   73,591$   96,975$   
Page | 61
61
---PDF PAGE 65---
The 
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
MacEwan University 
Consolidated Statement of Remeasurement Gains and Losses 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
 (thousands of dollars) 
2025 2024
Accumulated remeasurement gains, beginning of year  $   20,895  $  16,391 
Unrealized gains attributable to: 0 0
Designated fair value of non-endowed portfolio investments 4,889 6,123
Amounts reclassified to the consolidated statement of operations: 0 0
Designated fair value of non-endowed portfolio investments   (7,006)  (1,619)
Accumulated remeasurement gains, end of year  $   18,778  $  20,895 
Page | 62
62
---PDF PAGE 66---
T
he accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
MacEwan University 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars)  
2 025 2024
OPERATING TRANSACTIONS
Annual surplus  $   17,436  $   31,009 
Add (deduct) non-cash items:
Amortization of tangible capital assets and purchased 
intangibles   17,322   17,098 
Gain on disposal of portfolio investments   (14,760)   (4,560)
(Gain) loss on disposal of tangible capital assets and 
purchased intangibles   (52)   1,532 
Capitalized contaminated site liability   -   (4,080)
Capitalized asset retirement obligation   (31)   (236)
(Gain) on sale of Alberta College Campus - (18,859)
Expended capital contributions recognized as revenue   (6,223) (7,587)
Change in employee future benefit liabilities   370   72 
Change in non-cash items
Increase in accounts receivable   (404)   (951)
(Increase) decrease in inventories held for sale   (164)   53 
Increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities   6,851   5,131 
Increase in deferred revenue, excluding change in 
restricted unrealized gain   11,071   10,610 
(Decrease) increase in liability for contaminated sites   (4,314)   614 
(Increase) decrease in prepaid expenses   (927)   251 
Cash provided by operating transactions   26,175   30,097 
CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS
Acquisition of tangible capital assets and purchased 
intangibles, less in-kind donations and asset retirement 
additions   (59,952)   (36,920)
Proceeds on sale of Alberta College Campus   -   22,000 
Proceeds on sale of tangible capital assets and purchased 
intangibles   99   13 
Cash applied to capital transactions   (59,853)   (14,907)
INVESTING TRANSACTIONS
Purchase of portfolio investments   (5,055)   (10,518)
Proceeds on sale of portfolio investments   3,105   9,113 
Decrease in finance lease receivable   794   770 
Cash applied to investing transactions   (1,156)   (635)
FINANCING TRANSACTIONS
Debt repayment   (4,433)   (4,575)
Increase (decrease) in spent deferred capital contributions, 
less expended capital contributions recognized as revenue, 
less in-kind donations   11,114   7,382 
Cash provided by financing transactions   6,681   2,807 
(Decrease) increase in cash   (28,153)   17,362 
Cash, beginning of the year   87,033   69,671 
Cash, end of the year  $   58,880  $   87,033 
Page | 63
63
---PDF PAGE 67---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
1)
Authority and purpose
The Board of Governors of Grant MacEwan University is a corporation that manages and operates MacEwan University
(“the university”) under the Post-secondary Learning Act (Alberta). All members of the Board of Governors are appointed
by either the Lieutenant Governor in Council or the Minister of Advanced Education, with the exception of the Chancellor
and the President and Vice-Chancellor, who are ex officio members. Under the Post-secondary Learning Act, the
university is an undergraduate university offering undergraduate degree programs, approved foundational learning,
diploma or certificate programs, undertaking research and scholarly activities that enrich undergraduate education, and
collaborating with other post-secondary institutions to support regional access to undergraduate degree programs. The
university is a registered charity, and under Section 149 of the Income Tax Act (Canada), is exempt from the payment of
income tax. This tax exemption does not extend to its wholly-owned subsidiary, MacEwan Downtown Corporation.
2) Summary of significant accounting policies and reporting practices
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting
standards (PSAS) as recommended by the Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada (CPA Canada). The
significant accounting policies are presented to assist the reader in evaluating these consolidated financial statements
and, together with the following notes, should be considered an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Significant aspects of the accounting policies adopted by the university are as follows:
a) Basis of consolidation
These consolidated financial statements include the university and the following entities controlled by the university:
 the Grant MacEwan University Foundation, a registered charitable organization that operates under Part 9 of the
Companies Act (Alberta) for the support and advancement of the university; and
 MacEwan Downtown Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary that is an inactive corporation.
The line-by-line method is used to record entities that are not Government business enterprises (GBEs). 
b) Use of estimates
The measurement of certain assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses is contingent upon future events; therefore, the
preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates, which may vary from actual results.
The university’s management uses judgment to determine such estimates. Employee future benefit liabilities,
amortization of tangible capital assets, amortization of purchased intangibles, asset retirement obligations, liabilities for
contaminated sites, and the revenue recognition for expended capital are the most significant items based on estimates.
In management’s opinion, the resulting estimates are within reasonable limits of materiality and are in accordance with
the significant accounting policies summarized below.
c) Valuation of financial assets and liabilities
The university’s financial assets and liabilities are generally measured as follows:
Financial Statement Component  Measurement
Portfolio investments  Fair value  
Finance lease receivable Lower of amortized cost or net recoverable value 
Accounts receivable  Lower of cost or net recoverable value 
Inventories held for sale Lower of cost or net realizable value 
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities Cost 
Liability for contaminated sites  Cost 
Asset retirement obligations Cost 
Debt Amortized cost 
Unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities are recognized in the 
consolidated statement of remeasurement gains and losses. When the restricted nature of a financial instrument and any 
related changes in fair value creates a liability, unrealized gains and losses are recognized as deferred revenue.  
All financial assets are tested annually for impairment. When financial assets are impaired, impairment losses are 
recognized in the consolidated statement of operations. Other than portfolio investments that are recorded at fair value, 
Page | 64
64
---PDF PAGE 68---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
a w
rite-down of a financial asset to reflect a loss in value that is other than temporary is not reversed for a subsequent 
increase in value.  
For financial assets and liabilities measured using amortized cost, the effective interest rate method is used to determine 
interest revenue or expense. Transaction costs are a component of cost for financial instruments measured using cost 
or amortized cost. Transaction costs are expensed for financial instruments measured at fair value. Investment 
management fees are expensed as incurred. The purchase and sale of portfolio investments are accounted for using 
trade-date accounting.  
The university does not use foreign currency contracts or any other type of derivative financial instruments for trading or 
speculative purposes. 
Management evaluates contractual obligations for the existence of embedded derivatives and elects to either designate 
the entire contract for fair value measurement or separately measure the value of the derivative component when 
characteristics of the derivative are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the contract itself. 
Contracts to buy or sell non-financial items for the university’s normal purchase, sale or usage requirements are not 
recognized as financial assets or liabilities. The university does not have any embedded derivatives in contractual 
obligations.  
d) Revenue recognition
All revenues are reported on an accrual basis. Amounts received for goods or services not provided by year-end are
recognized as deferred revenue.
Government grants, non-government grants, and donations
Government transfers are referred to as government grants.
Restricted grants and donations are recognized as deferred revenue if the terms for the use, or the terms along with the
university’s actions and communications as to the use, create a liability. These grants and donations are recognized as
revenue as the terms are met. If the grants and donations are used to acquire or construct tangible capital assets, revenue
will be recognized over the useful life of the tangible capital assets.
Government grants without terms for the use of the grant are recognized as revenue when the university is eligible to
receive the funds. Unrestricted non-government grants and donations are recognized as revenue in the year received or
in the year the funds are committed to the university if the amount can be reasonably estimated, and collection is
reasonably assured.
In-kind donations of services, materials, and tangible capital assets are recognized at fair value when such value can
reasonably be determined. Transfers of tangible capital assets from related parties are recognized at the carrying value
of the transferring party.
Grants and donations related to land
Grants and donations for the purchase of land are recognized as deferred revenue when received and recognized as
revenue when the land is purchased.
The university recognizes in-kind contributions of land as revenue at the fair value of the land when a fair value can be
reasonably determined. When the university cannot determine the fair value, it recognizes such in-kind contributions at
nominal value.
Sales of services and products
Sales of services and products include revenues from non-tuition related services and/or products arising from exchange
transactions, such as parking fees, conference fees, amenities fees, recreation program registration fees, membership
fees, food services and related commissions, vending commissions, gift certificates, book and stationary sales, rental
income, theatre ticket sales, sponsorship revenue, contract programs, daycare fees, and other administrative charges.
They are recognized when or as the university fulfils its performance obligation(s) and transfers control of the promised
goods or services to the payor. If the performance obligation is outstanding at year end, the remaining revenue is deferred.
Page | 65
65
---PDF PAGE 69---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
O
ther revenues including parking fines and surcharges, non-refundable application fees, cancellation fees, daycare 
subsidies, and certain administrative fees, are considered non-exchange transactions without performance obligations. 
They are recognized when the university has the authority to claim or retain an inflow of economic resources and identifies 
a transaction or event that gives rise to an asset. 
Student tuition and fees 
Student tuition and fees are charged for the programs offered by the university such as program registration and 
application fees, course delivery fees, student ID fees and laboratory & studio fees. 
These fees are considered revenue arising from exchange transactions with performance obligations. The university 
recognizes revenue from program registration and application fees when received as the performance obligations of 
registering the student are met when paid. Revenue from course delivery and laboratory and studio fees are recognized 
over the course of each academic period/semester as the university fulfils its performance obligations by delivering the 
courses. If the performance obligation is outstanding at year end, the remaining revenue is deferred. Revenue from 
student ID fees is recognized when the performance obligation to provide the student ID card to the student has been 
met. 
Endowment contributions 
Endowment contributions are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the year they are received and 
are required by the donors to be maintained intact in perpetuity. 
Investment income 
Investment income includes dividends, interest income, and realized gains or losses on the sale of unrestricted (non-
endowed) portfolio investments.  
Investment income from restricted grants and donations is recognized as deferred revenue when the terms for use create 
a liability and is recognized as investment income when the terms of the grant or donation are met. 
Unrealized gains and losses on unrestricted (non-endowed) portfolio investments are recognized in the consolidated 
statement of accumulated remeasurement gains and losses until the related investments are sold. Once realized, these 
gains or losses are recognized as investment income in the consolidated statement of operations. 
e) Endowments
Endowments consist of externally restricted donations received by the university that are required by the donors to be
maintained intact into perpetuity.
Investment income earned from endowments must be used in accordance with the various purposes established by the
donors or the Board of Governors. Benefactors and university policy stipulate that the economic value of the endowments
must be protected by limiting the amount of income that may be expended and reinvesting unexpended income. Under
the Post-secondary Learning Act , the university has the authority to alter the terms and conditions of endowments to
enable:
 investment income earned by the endowments to be withheld from distribution to avoid fluctuations in the amounts
distributed and generally to regulate the distribution of income earned by the endowments; and / or
 encroachment on the endowment capital to avoid fluctuations in the amounts distributed and generally to regulate
the distribution of investment income earned by the endowments if, in the opinion of the Board of Governors, the
encroachment benefits the university and does not impair the long-term value of the endowment.
In any year, if the investment income earned on endowments is insufficient to fund the spending allocation, the university 
has the option to defer the spending allocation, fund the spending allocation from the university’s operating funds, or fund 
the spending allocation through encroachment of endowment capital. 
f) Finance lease receivable
The finance lease receivable is recognized at the present value of future expected lease payment. The discount rate
used to determine the present value of the lease payments receivable is the lower of the university’s rate for incremental
borrowing or the interest rate implicit in the lease. The tangible capital asset is derecognized at the carrying value. Any
Page | 66
66
---PDF PAGE 70---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
dif
ference between the net investment in the lease and the related tangible capital asset's carrying value will be 
recognized as a gain or loss on the consolidated statement of operations. 
g) Inventories held for sale
Inventories held for sale are measured at the lower of cost or expected net realizable value that is determined using the
moving average basis.
h) Tangible capital assets and purchased intangibles
Tangible capital assets and purchased intangibles are recognized at cost, which includes amounts directly related to the
acquisition, design, construction, development, improvement, or betterment of the assets and costs associated with asset
retirement obligations. Cost also includes overhead directly attributable to construction and development, and interest
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of the asset.
Work-in-progress, including facilities’ improvement projects, furniture and equipment construction, and development of
information systems, is not amortized until the project is complete and the asset is in service. Assets or disposal groups
that are classified as held-for-sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
All leases are recorded in the consolidated financial statements as either a capital or operating lease. Any lease which
transfers substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership associated with the leased asset are accounted for as leased
tangible capital assets. Capital lease assets and liabilities are recognized at the lesser of the present value of the future
minimum lease payments or the asset’s fair market value at the inception of the lease, excluding executor costs (e.g.,
insurance, maintenance costs, etc). The discount rate used to determine the present value of the lease payments is the
lower of the university’s rate for incremental borrowing or the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The cost, less residual value, of the tangible capital assets and purchased intangibles, excluding land, is amortized on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives as follows:
Buildings Up to 40 years 
Land & leasehold improvements Up to 40 years 
Furniture, equipment & systems Up to 25 years 
Learning resources Up to 10 years 
Write-downs of tangible capital asset and purchased intangibles are recognized when conditions indicate they no longer 
contribute to the university’s ability to provide services or when the value of future economic benefits associated with the 
tangible capital assets are less than their net book value. Net write-downs are recognized as expenses. 
Works of art, historical treasures and collections are expensed when acquired and not recognized as tangible capital 
assets because a reasonable estimate of the future benefits associated with such property cannot be made. 
i) Foreign currency translation
Transaction amounts denominated in foreign currencies are translated into their Canadian dollar equivalents at the
prevailing exchange rate on the transaction date. The carrying values of monetary assets and liabilities and non-monetary
items included in the fair value category reflect the exchange rates at the consolidated statement of financial position
date. Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized in the consolidated statement of remeasurement
gains and losses.
In the period of settlement, foreign exchange gains and losses are reclassified to the consolidated statement of
operations, and the cumulative amount of remeasurement gains and losses is reversed in the consolidated statement of
remeasurement gains and losses.
j) Employee future benefits
Pension
The university participates with other employers in the Local Authorities Pension Plan (LAPP). This pension plan is a
multi-employer defined benefit pension plan that provides pensions for the university’s participating employees based on
years of service and earnings.
Page | 67
67
---PDF PAGE 71---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
T
he university does not have sufficient plan information on the LAPP to follow the standards for defined benefit 
accounting, and therefore follows the standards for defined contribution accounting. Accordingly, pension expense 
recognized for the LAPP comprises employer contributions to the plan required for its employees during the year, which 
are calculated based on actuarially pre-determined amounts that are expected to provide the plan’s future benefits. 
Supplemental retirement plans 
The university maintains a supplemental pension plan for its executives based on the plan rules. The pension expense 
for this defined benefit supplemental retirement plan is actuarially determined using the projected benefit method prorated 
on service. Actuarial gains or losses on the accrued benefit obligation are amortized over the expected average remaining 
service life. Actuarial valuations are obtained at least every three years. The value of the supplemental retirement plan 
and the associated changes during the year are extrapolated from the most recent actuarial valuation that was prepared 
one or two fiscal periods earlier.  
Accumulating non-vesting sick leave liability 
Sick leave benefits accumulate with employee service and are provided by the university to all employee groups as 
defined by employment agreements to cover illness related to absences outside of short-term and long-term disability 
coverage. The maximum accumulated sick leave is 210 to 315 hours, depending on the employee group. The liability for 
the accumulating non-vesting sick pay benefit is actuarially determined using two models: Excess Utilization Model and 
Disability Model. The cost of the accumulating non-vesting sick leave benefits is expensed as the benefits are earned. 
Actuarial valuations are obtained at least every three years and the value of the sick leave benefit and the associated 
changes during the year are extrapolated from the most recent actuarial valuation that was prepared one or two fiscal 
periods earlier. 
Benefit liability for employees on long-term disability 
The university is responsible for paying the employee and employer Local Authority Pension Plan (LAPP) contributions 
and other benefit premiums while an employee is on long-term disability. The liability is actuarially calculated at the 
present value of the forecasted combined premiums for each claimant. The cost of this benefit is expensed in the year 
the employee becomes disabled. Actuarial valuations are obtained at least every three years. The value of the benefit 
liability for employees on long-term disability and the associated changes during the year are extrapolated from the most 
recent actuarial valuation that was prepared one or two fiscal periods earlier. Actuarial gains or losses on the accrued 
benefit obligation are amortized over the average expected period the benefits will be paid. 
Administrative leave 
The university supports employees transitioning from academic administrator positions to faculty positions by offering 
administrative leave between appointments. The administrative leave is up to 12 months for five years of continuous 
service. The employee must return to regular faculty responsibility for a minimum period equal to the administrative leave 
period. This administrative leave does not vest or accumulate to the employee. On approval to receive administrative 
leave, a liability is recognized for the salary and benefits equal to the employee’s base salary at the end of their term as 
an academic administrator. The cost of the administrative leave is expensed in the year the employee is approved to 
receive the administrative leave. 
k) Liability for contaminated sites
Contaminated sites are a result of contamination of a chemical, organic, or radioactive material or live organism that
exceeds an environmental standard and is being introduced into the soil, water, or sediment. It does not include airborne
contaminants. Contaminated sites occur when an environmental standard exists, and contamination exceeds the
environmental standard. The university recognizes a liability for remediation of contaminated sites when the following
criteria have been met:
 an environmental standard exists;
 there is evidence that contamination exceeds an environmental standard;
 the university is directly responsible or accepts responsibility for the contamination;
 it is expected that future economic benefits will be given up; and
 a reasonable estimate of the amount can be made.
Page | 68
68
---PDF PAGE 72---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
A liability for a contaminated site may arise when environmental standards are exceeded from operations that are 
considered either in productive use or no longer in productive use. It will also arise when an unexpected event occurs 
resulting in contamination that exceeds an environmental standard. 
Where an environmental standard does not exist or contamination does not exceed an environmental standard, a liability 
for remediation of a site is recognized by the university when the following criteria have been met: 

the university has a duty or responsibility to others, leaving little or no discretion to avoid the obligation;
 the duty or responsibility to others entails settlement by future transfer or use of assets, or a provision of services at
a specified or determinable date, or on demand; and
 the transaction or events obligating the university have already occurred.
These liabilities reflect the university’s best estimate, as at March 31, of the amount required to remediate the sites where 
the contamination has exceeded an environmental standard. Where possible, provisions for remediation are based on 
third-party environmental assessments completed on a site. For those sites where an assessment has not been 
completed, estimates of the remediation are completed using information available for the site and by extrapolating from 
the cost to remediate similar sites.  
l) Asset retirement obligations
Asset retirement obligations are legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible capital assets. The tangible
capital assets include but are not limited to assets in productive use, assets no longer in productive use, and leased
tangible capital assets. Asset retirement activities include all activities relating to an asset retirement obligation. These
may include, but are not limited to:
 decommissioning or dismantling of a tangible capital asset that was acquired, constructed, or developed;
 remediation of contamination of a tangible capital asset created by its normal use;
 post-retirement activities such as monitoring; or
 constructing other tangible capital assets to perform post-retirement activities.
A liability for an asset retirement obligation is recognized when, as at the financial reporting date, all of the following 
criteria are met: 
 there is a legal obligation to incur retirement costs in relation to a tangible capital asset;
 the past transaction or event giving rise to the liability has occurred;
 it is expected that future economic benefits will be given up; and
 a reasonable estimate of the amount can be made.
W
hen a liability for an asset retirement obligation is recognized, asset retirement costs related to a recognized tangible 
capital asset in productive use are capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related tangible capital asset. The 
asset retirement costs are amortized over the remaining estimated useful life of the underlying tangible capital asset. Asset 
retirement costs related to unrecognized tangible capital assets and those not in productive use are expensed.  
The asset retirement obligation is measured at the current estimated cost to settle or otherwise extinguish the liability. 
m) Expense by function
The university uses the following categories of expense functions on its consolidated statement of operations:
Instruction includes expenses related to all programming and training within the university, whether for credit or non-
credit courses.  
Academic support  includes expenses related to activities directly supporting the university’s academic functions, 
including but not limited to expenses of the library and academic Dean’s departments. 
Student support  includes functions that support individual students or groups of students such as student service 
administration, student recruitment, records and admissions (registrar), counselling or career services, social 
development and recreation, financial aid administration, intercollegiate athletics, scholarship awards, and any other 
student support groups. 
Page | 69
69
---PDF PAGE 73---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
Ad
ministration includes expenses for executive management, marketing and communications, insurance premiums, 
finance, human resources, and any other university-wide administrative services. 
Computing and communication  include expenses related to university-wide Information Technology (IT) services. 
These costs can be related to in-house staff or to services provided by a third party. 
Facility operations and maintenance includes management and expenses to maintain and renovate grounds, facilities, 
operations, and physical plant for all university activities. It also includes utilities and amortization of building and 
equipment, and excludes expenses attributable to ancillary services. 
Ancillary services include expenses for operations outside of the functions of instruction and research. Examples 
include bookstores, food services, residences and housing, parking services, and print services. It also includes 
amortization directly attributable to ancillary services. 
Other includes the following costs: 
 Research includes expenses for strategic innovation, and research and education projects that are outside, but
complimentary to, the university’s core program areas.
 Restricted and endowment activities include expenses associated with restricted grants, including fundraising costs,
salaries and benefits of staff who are designated for special purpose areas, specialized equipment for special
purpose areas or self-generated business, foreign exchange losses, public relations and alumni relations, business
development and advancement departments, and strategic initiatives outside of core operational funding that
contribute to the achievement of the strategic plan and goals of the university.
n) Internally Restricted Surplus
Certain amounts, as approved by the Board of Governors, are appropriated from accumulated surplus from operations
for future operating and capital purposes. Disbursements from internally restricted surplus are recorded as an adjustment
to the respective fund when approved.
o) Future changes in accounting standards
The university will adopt the following new conceptual framework and accounting standard approved by the Public
Sector Accounting Board:
 Effective April 1, 2026, The Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting in the Public Sector . The Conceptual
Framework is the foundation for public sector financial reporting standards. It replaces the conceptual aspects of
Section PS 1000, Financial Statement Concepts , and Section PS 1100, Financial Statement Objectives . The
conceptual framework highlights considerations fundamental for the consistent application of accounting issues in
the absence of specific standards.
 Effective April 1, 2026, PS 1202 Financial Statement Presentation. Section PS 1202 sets out general and specific
requirements for the presentation of information in general purpose financial statements. The financial statement
presentation principles are based on the concepts within the Conceptual Framework.
The university is currently assessing the impact of the new conceptual framework and standard, and the extent of the 
impact of their adoption on the consolidated financial statements has not yet been determined. 
3) Cash
Cash includes $3,743 (2024 - $2,560) held by investment managers for the purpose of meeting short term commitments
or manager’s expenditures. Cash held in operating bank accounts earned an average of 4.6% interest.
Page | 70
70
---PDF PAGE 74---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
4) P
ortfolio investments
The composition of portfolio investments measured at fair value is as follows: 
Pending trades receivable: the university sold investments of $ 40,000 ( $ 20,000 non endowment and $ 20,000 
restricted for endowments) with a trade date of March 31, 2025 the proceeds of this transaction settled on April 1, 2025. 
The fair value measurements are derived from: 
 Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets;
 Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the assets, either directly
(i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices); and
 Level 3 – valuation techniques that include inputs for the assets that are not based on observable market data
(unobservable inputs).
2025 2024
Portfolio investments – non-endowment  $  109,740  $  97,158 
Portfolio investments – restricted for endowments 58,342 57,367
 $  168,082  $  154,525 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Portfolio investments holdings at fair value
Pooled funds
Canadian GICs - $  2,160 $   - $   2,160 $   
Canadian equities 715   29,889   -   30,604  
Foreign equities 8,155   65,276   -   73,431  
Canadian bonds -   2,305  -   2,305   
Foreign bonds -   18,580  -   18,580  
Pending trades receivable -   40,000  -   40,000  
 Cash surrender value of planned gifts
(life insurance policies) -    -    1,002   1,002   
8,870 $     158,210 $  1,002 $     168,082 $   
5.28% 94.13% 0.60% 100.00%
Portfolio investments holdings at fair value
Pooled funds
Canadian GICs - $  4,300 $   - $   4,300 $   
Canadian equities 755   34,933   -   35,688  
Foreign equities 7,256   76,206   -   83,462  
Canadian bonds -   2,207  -   2,207   
Foreign bonds -   27,899  -   27,899  
 Cash surrender value of planned gifts
(life insurance policies) -    -    969    969   
8,011 $     145,545 $  969 $    154,525 $   
5.18% 94.19% 0.63% 100.00%
2025
2024
Page | 71
71
---PDF PAGE 75---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
T
he following table reconciles the changes in fair value of level 3 investments: 
There were no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 investments during the current year (2024 - no transfers) 
The university has policies and procedures governing asset mix, diversification, exposure limits, credit quality, and 
performance measurement. The university's Finance, Property and Investment Committee has been delegated authority 
to oversee the university's investments on behalf of the Board of Governors. 
5) Financial risk management
The university is exposed to the following risks:
a) Market price risk
The university is exposed to market price risk, the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes
in market prices, whether those changes are caused by factors specific to the individual security, its issuer, or general
market factors affecting all securities. To manage this risk, the university has established an investment policy with a
target asset mix diversified by asset class with individual issuer limits. The objective of the university’s unrestricted long-
term operating fund is to achieve long-term capital growth equal to the indices’ growth rates for the various components
of the portfolio. For restricted investments for endowments, the investment policy is designed to achieve a long-term rate
of return that in real terms equals or exceeds total endowment expenditures with an acceptable level of risk.
At March 31, 2025, the impact of a change in the rate of return on the investment portfolio is as follows:
 1% change in fixed income securities would have a $231 increase or decrease (2024 - 1% change
would have a $344 increase or decrease);
 1% change in common stocks and equivalents would have a $1040 increase or decrease (2024 – 1% change would
have a $1191 increase or decrease).
b) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to
changes in foreign exchange rates. The university is exposed to foreign exchange risk on portfolio investments that are
denominated in foreign currencies. The university does not use foreign currency forward contracts or any other type of
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Fair Value 
2.5% 
decrease 
1.0% 
decrease 
1.0% 
increase 
2.5% 
increase 
Foreign Portfolio Investments $ 92,011 $  (2,300) $  (92) $ 92 $ 2,300 
c)
Credit risk
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the failure of a counterparty to fully honour its financial obligations
to the university. The university is exposed to credit risk on fixed income investments and has established an investment
policy with required minimum credit quality standards and issuer limits to manage this risk. The credit risk from accounts
receivable is low as most balances are due from government agencies and corporate sponsors.
2025 2024
Balance, beginning of year  $   969  $   953 
Purchases 33   16   
Balance, end of year  $  1,002  $   969 
Page | 72
72
---PDF PAGE 76---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
d
) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the university will encounter difficulty meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities.
The university maintains a short-term line of credit that is designed to ensure funds are available to meet current and
forecasted financial requirements in the most cost-effective manner. The university did not use this line of credit during
the year. As at March 31, 2025, the university has committed borrowing facilities of $10,000 (2024 - $10,000).
e) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk to the university’s earnings that arise from the fluctuations in interest rates and the degree of
volatility of these rates. This risk is managed by investment policies that limit the term to maturity of certain fixed-income
securities that the university holds. Interest risk on the university’s debt is managed through fixed-rate agreements with
the Department of Treasury Board and Finance (Note 8).
The maturity and effective market yield of interest-bearing investments are as follows:
Asset Class 
Less than 
1 year 1 to 5 years 
Greater than 5 
years 
Average effective 
market yield 
Portfolio investments, bonds and GICs 80.6% 15.9%  3.5% 7.95% 
6) Finance lease receivable
The university leases a building to the Students’ Association of MacEwan University (SAMU). The initial lease term
expires December 2042, with an additional renewal term option of 74 years. The debt financing from the Department of
Treasury Board and Finance for the SAMU building is disclosed in Note 8.
Lease payment receivable, interest repayments, and gross lease payments in each of the next five years and thereafter
are as follows:
Finance lease 
receivable Interest Annual payment
2026 818$   579$   1,397$   
2027 843    554    1,397   
2028 868    528    1,396   
2029 895    502    1,397   
2030 923    474    1,397   
Thereafter 14,907   3,251   18,158   
Total at March 31, 2025 19,254$    5,888$   25,142$   
Total at March 31, 2024 20,048$    6,492$   26,540$   
Page | 73
73
---PDF PAGE 77---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
7)
Employee future benefit liabilities
Employee future benefit liabilities are comprised of the following:
a) Defined benefit accounted for on a defined benefit basis
Benefit liability for employees on long-term disability
Following university policy and collective agreements, employees eligible for participation in the Local Authority Pension
Plan (LAPP) who receive benefits under the long-term disability plan must continue to participate in LAPP. The university
is responsible for remitting both employee and employer contributions in accordance with LAPP regulations. An actuarial
valuation was carried out as at January 31, 2025 and extrapolated to March 31, 2025.
Supplemental retirement plans
The university provides non-contributory defined benefit supplemental retirement benefits to executives. An actuarial
valuation was carried out as at March 31, 2025.
Accumulating non-vesting sick leave liability
The university provides accumulating non-vesting sick leave to employees. An actuarial valuation of these benefits was
carried out as at January 31, 2025, and results were extrapolated to March 31, 2025. Any resulting net actuarial gain
(loss) is deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the related employee group’s expected average remaining
service life.
Administrative leave
The university supports employees transitioning from academic administrator positions to faculty positions by offering
administrative leave between appointments. On approval to receive administrative leave, a liability is recognized for the
salary and benefits equal to the employee’s base annual salary at the end of their term as an academic administrator.
The cost of the administrative leave is expensed in the year the employee is approved to receive the administrative leave.
2025 2024
Benefit liability for employees on long-term disability 4,312$    3,929$    
Supplemental retirement plan (SRP) 1,268   1,212   
Accumulating non-vesting sick leave liability 463   531   
Administrative leave 537   538   
Balance, end of year 6,580$    6,210$    
Page | 74
74
---PDF PAGE 78---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
The
 expense and financial position of these defined benefit plans are as follows: 
The university plans to use its working capital to finance these future obligations. 
Benefit liability 
for employees on 
short and long 
term disability
Supplemental 
retirement 
plan
Accumulated 
non-vesting 
sick leave 
benefit
Administrative 
leave
Expense
Current service cost 942$   70$   29$   810$   
Interest cost 159   58   17   -   
Amortization of actuarial (gain) loss (281)   103   (75)   -   
Benefit payments -  (67)   -   (811)   
Total expense (recovery) 820$   164$   (29)$  (1)$   
Financial position
Accrued benefit obligation:
Balance, beginning of year 2,452$   1,162$  324$   538$   
Current service cost 942   70   29   810   
Benefit payment (436)   (67)   (39)  (811)  
Interest cost 160   58   16  -                  
Actuarial (gain) loss (1)   103   207   -   
Balance, end of year 3,117   1,326   537   537   
Unamortized net actuarial gain (loss) 1,195   (58)   (74)   -   
Accrued benefit liability 4,312$   1,268$  463$   537$   
Expense
Current service cost 667$   68$   29$   440$   
Interest cost 127   51   15   -   
Amortization of actuarial gain (337)   (33)   (74)   -   
Benefit payments -  (66)   -   (433)   
Total expense (recovery) 457$   20$   (30)$  7$   
Financial position
Accrued benefit obligation:
Balance, beginning of year 2,336$   1,142$  330$   531$   
Current service cost 667   68   29   440   
Benefit payment (375)   (66)   (39)  (433)  
Interest cost 127   51   15   -   
Actuarial gain (303)   (33)   (11)   -   
Balance, end of year 2,452   1,162   324   538   
Unamortized net actuarial gain 1,477   50   207   -   
Accrued benefit liability 3,929$   1,212$  531$   538$   
2025
2024
Page | 75
75
---PDF PAGE 79---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
T
he significant actuarial assumptions used to measure the accrued benefit obligations are as follows: 
b) Defined benefit plan accounted for on a defined contribution basis
Multi-employer pension plans
The Local Authorities Pension Plan (LAPP) is a multi-employer contributory defined benefit pension plan for all university
employees and is accounted for on a defined contribution basis. At December 31, 2024, the LAPP reported an actuarial
surplus of $19.5 billion (2023 - $15.1 billion); an actuarial valuation of the LAPP was carried out as at December 31, 2023
and results were extrapolated to December 31, 2024. The pension expense recognized in the consolidated financial
statements as at March 31, 2025 is $12,125 (2024 - $11,297).
Benefit liability for 
employees on long-
term disability
Supplemental 
retirement plan
Accumulated non-
vesting sick leave 
benefit
Accrued benefit obligation
 Discount rate 4.36% 4.15% 4.36%
 Long-term average compensation 
 increase 3.00% 2.00% 3.00%
Benefit cost
Discount rate 5.00% 4.86% 5.00%
Year's maximum pensionable earnings 
and maximum pension increase 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Inflation rate 2.00% 2.00% 2.00%
Estimated average remaining service life 6.0 8.1 11.9
Benefit liability for 
employees on long-
term disability
Supplemental 
retirement plan
Accumulated non-
vesting sick leave 
benefit
Accrued benefit obligation
 Discount rate 5.00% 4.86% 5.00%
 Long-term average compensation 
 increase 3.00% 2.00% 3.00%
Benefit cost
Discount rate 4.50% 4.34% 4.50%
Year's maximum pensionable earnings 
and maximum pension increase 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Inflation rate 2.00% 2.00% 2.00%
Estimated average remaining service life 6.8 8.7 10.9
2024
2025
Page | 76
76
---PDF PAGE 80---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
8) Debt
Debt
 is measured at amortized cost and is comprised of the following:
Collateral consists of: 
1) cash flows from parking
2) cash flows from residence
3) general security agreements
Principal and interest repayments in each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows: 
Interest on debt is $1,960 (2024 - $2,177) and is included in the consolidated statement of operations. The finance lease 
receivable outlined in Note 6 is equal to the SAMU building debt.  
Collateral Maturity date Interest rate 2025 2024
Debentures payable to Alberta 
Treasury Board and Finance:
Surface parking lots 3 Sep 2024 1.568% - $  348 $    
Parkade 1 Apr 2025 6.250% 482 937
Student residence 2 Jun 2030 5.849% 14,594   16,784   
West parkade 1 Sep 2030 4.392% 1,925    2,228   
Robbins Health Learning Centre 
parkade 1 Sep 2032 4.890% 780   865   
SAMU building 3 Dec 2042 3.040% 19,254   20,048   
Allard Hall parkade 3 Dec 2047 3.164% 6,192    6,372   
Allard Hall ancillary 3 Dec 2047 3.164% 2,698    2,776   
45,925$   50,358 $   
Principal Interest Total  
2026  $  4,294  $  1,827  $  6,121 
2027  4,002  1,606  5,608 
2028  4,201  1,407  5,608 
2029  4,412  1,196  5,608 
2030  4,633  975  5,608 
Thereafter  24,383  5,704  30,087 
45,925$   12,715$   58,640$   
Page | 77
77
---PDF PAGE 81---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
9) Def
erred revenue
Deferred revenue is set aside for specific purposes as required either by legislation, regulation, or agreement:
 
(1) Tuition, fees and other revenue recognized as revenue $138,929 (2024 - $122,260) are presented in the consolidated
statement of operations as student tuition and fees as well as certain revenues within sales of services and products.
2024
Deferred 
revenue
Deferred 
capital 
contributions
Tuition, fees 
and other 
revenue (1) Total Total
Balance, beginning of year  $   45,414  $   626  $   16,287  $   62,327  $   51,717 
Grants, tuition, fees, donations and other funds 
received   15,120   11,460   139,352   165,932   145,156 
Restricted investment income - realized   11,470 -    -     11,470   5,988 
Restricted investment (loss) income - unrealized   (1,014) -    -     (1,014)   6,039 
Transfers to spent deferred capital contributions   (1,309)   (10,164) -  (11,473)   (9,128)
Recognized as revenue   (15,849) -    (138,929) (154,778)   (137,326)
Transfer from (to) endowment   3 -   -   3   (26)
Returned to grantor  (83) -   -     (83)   (93)
Balance, end of year  $   53,752  $   1,922  $   16,710  $   72,384  $   62,327 
2025
Unspent externally restricted
Page | 78
78
---PDF PAGE 82---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
10) T
angible capital assets and purchased intangibles
Tangible capital assets changes during the period are as follows:
(1) Cost includes work-in-progress at March 31, 2025 totaling $51,130 (2024 - $34,199) comprised of land $nil (2024 -
$203), land and leasehold improvements $17 (2024 - $11), buildings $50,083 (2024 - $33,382) and furniture,
equipment and systems $1,030 (2024 - $603).
(2) Furniture, equipment, and systems includes vehicles, heavy equipment, office equipment, furniture, computers and
technology, and other equipment.
(3) Learning resources include library materials used to support the educational purposes of certain academic programs
and purchased intangible assets with a net book value of $3,170 (2024 - $3,007). For the year ended March 31,
2025 there were additions of $856 (2024 - $630).
(4) No interest related to acquisitions was capitalized by the university in 2025 (2024 – $nil).
2024
Land Buildings
Land & 
leasehold 
improvement
s
Furniture, 
equipment 
& systems 
(2)
Learning 
resources 
(3) Total Total
Cost (1)
Beginning of year 76,422 $    490,811 $ 7,644$    73,282 $    20,707 $    668,866 $ 638,044 $ 
Acquisitions (4) -  53,282  688   5,569   856    60,395   41,236   
Disposals, including write-downs -  - -   (2,748)   (77)  (2,825)  (10,414)    
76,422   544,093    8,332   76,103   21,486   726,436    668,866    
Accumulated amortization
Beginning of year -  (181,890)  (4,629)    (57,688)    (16,418)    (260,625)   (249,255)   
Amortization expense -  (12,475)  (331)  (3,678)  (838)  (17,322)  (17,098)    
Effects on disposals, including 
write-downs -    -    -   2,701   77    2,778   5,728   
-  (194,365)  (4,960)    (58,665)    (17,179)    (275,169)   (260,625)   
Net book value at March 31, 2025 76,422 $    349,728 $ 3,372$    17,438 $    4,307 $      451,267 $ 
Net book value at March 31, 2024 76,422 $    308,921 $ 3,015$    15,594 $    4,289 $      408,241 $ 
2025
Page | 79
79
---PDF PAGE 83---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
11) S
pent deferred capital contributions
Spent deferred capital contributions are comprised of externally restricted grants and donations spent on tangible capital
assets that are not yet recognized as revenue.
12) Liability for contaminated sites
The composition of the liability is as follows:
As at March 31, 2025, the liability for contaminated sites includes sites such as parking lots, vacant lots, alleys, and 
boulevards that do not meet Alberta Environmental and Parks (AEP) tier 2 guidelines for hydrocarbons and metals. The 
nature of the contamination results from the historical use of the land as a railyard, with petroleum hydrocarbons and 
heavy metal contamination left behind upon its closure. The university reassesses its liability for contaminated sites on 
an annual basis, and liability estimates are based on a third-party subject matter expert’s assessment. 
New third-party information related to parcels acquired in the prior year concluded that a portion of those parcels were 
not exposed to contamination from their historical use. This resulted in an estimate reduction of $3,014. 
During the School of Business Building’s construction, the university remediated the soil contamination related to the 
historical land use. The remediation work was performed concurrently with site preparations, and a reduction in estimate 
of $1,367. 
An increase in estimate of $270 due to inflation on unremedied sites has been recorded, and separately identifiable 
remediation costs of $203 were incurred during construction. 
2025 2024
Balance, beginning of year 127,545$   126,004$  
Transfers from unspent deferred capital contributions 10,164  65 
Transfers from unspent deferred revenue 1,309  9,063 
Spent deferred capital contributions recognized as revenue  (6,223)  (7,587)
Balance, end of year 132,795$   127,545$   
2 025 2024
Balance, beginning of year 11,693$   6,999$   
Change in estimate related to existing sites (4,111)   614   
Remediation work performed (203)   -   
Addition to liabilities during the year -   4,080   
Balance, end of year 7,379$   11,693$   
Page | 80
80
---PDF PAGE 84---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
13) Asset 
retirement obligations
Tangible capital assets with associated retirement obligations include buildings. The university has retirement obligations 
to remove lead paint and hazardous asbestos fiber-containing materials (the “hazardous materials”) from various 
buildings under its control. Regulations require the university to handle and dispose of the hazardous materials in a 
prescribed manner when they are disturbed, such as when a building undergoes renovations or is demolished. Although 
the timing of the hazardous materials’ removal is conditional on the building undergoing renovations or being demolished, 
regulations require the creation of an obligation. 
Asset retirement obligations are initially measured as at the date the legal obligation was incurred, based on 
management’s best estimate of the amount required to retire tangible capital assets, and may be subsequently 
remeasured at each financial reporting date taking into account any new information and the appropriateness of 
assumptions used. The estimate of the liability is based on a third-party subject matter expert’s assessment. 
The extent of the liability is limited to costs directly attributable to the removal of the hazardous materials from various 
buildings under the university’s control in accordance with the legislation establishing the liability. The university estimates 
the nature and extent of the hazardous materials in its buildings based on the potential square meters affected and the 
average costs per square meter to remove and dispose of the hazardous materials. 
The asset retirement obligations estimate represents the current estimated cost to settle or otherwise extinguish the 
liability. The university has measured asset retirement obligations related to the hazardous materials at its current value 
due to the uncertainty regarding the timing of the removal. 
2025 2024
Balance, beginning of year 804$   568$   
Liability incurred -   186  
Revision in estimates 31   50   
Increase in asset retirement obligations 31$  236$   
Balance, end of year 835$   804$   
Page | 81
81
---PDF PAGE 85---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
14) Net
 Assets
The university’s opening accumulated surplus in investment in tangible capital assets has been reduced by the university’s 
asset retirement obligations of $835 (2024 - $804) and liability for contaminated sites of $ 6,361 (2024 - $ 10,744). A funding 
source for these obligations has not yet been determined.  
Accumulated 
surplus from 
operations
Investment in 
tangible 
capital assets
Internally 
restricted 
surplus Endowments Total 
Net assets, as at March 31, 2023 28,156$   221,438$   42,676$   56,180$   348,450$      
Annual operating surplus 29,822   -   -   -   29,822   
Endowment contributions -   -   -   1,187   1,187   
Tangible capital assets: -   
Amortization of internally funded tangible capital 
assets
11,052   (11,052)   -   -   -   
Net book value of assets disposals 3,167   (3,167)   -   -   -   
Debt repayment (3,805)   3,805   -   -   -   
Internally funded acquisition of tangible capital 
assets 
(22,435)   28,212   (5,777)   -   -   
Increase in asset retirement obligations 236   (236)   -   
Other grants and donations 77   (77)   -   -   -   
3,580   -  (3,580)  -   -   
Net Board appropriation to internally (32,776)   -  32,776  -   -   
restricted surplus
Change in accumulated remeasurement  4,504 -   - -   4,504   
gains
Net assets, beginning of year as at April 1, 2024 21,578$   238,923$   66,095$   57,367$   383,963$      
Annual operating surplus 16,461   -   -   -   16,461   
Endowment contributions -   -   -   975   975   
Tangible capital assets: -   
Amortization of internally funded tangible capital 
assets
11,103   (11,103)   -   -   -   
Net book value of assets disposals 46   (46)   -   -   -   
Debt repayment (3,640)   3,640   -   -   -   
Internally funded acquisition of tangible capital 
assets 
(11,097)   53,427   (42,330)   -   -   
Increase in asset retirement obligations 31   (31)   -   -   -   
Other grants and donations 205   (205)   -   -   -   
2,711   -   (2,711)   -   -   
Net Board appropriation to internally (18,513)   -   18,513   -   -   
restricted surplus
Change in accumulated remeasurement  (2,117) -   -   -   (2,117)   
loss
Net assets, end of year as at March 31, 2025 16,768$   284,605$   39,567$   58,342$   399,282$   
Net assets is comprised of:
Accumulated surplus (2,010)$   284,605$   39,567$   58,342$   380,504$   
Accumulated remeasurement gains  18,778 -   - -   18,778   
16,768$   284,605$   39,567$   58,342$   399,282$   
Operating expenses funded from internally 
restricted surplus
Operating expenses funded from internally 
restricted surplus
Page | 82
82
---PDF PAGE 86---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
I
nternally restricted surplus represents amounts set aside by the university’s Board of Governors for specific  
purposes. These amounts are not available for other purposes without approval from the Board of Governors. Internally 
restricted accumulated surplus includes: 
15) Contingent liabilities
As of March 31, 2025, the university was named as a defendant in one legal proceeding. While the ultimate outcome and
liability of this proceeding cannot be reasonably predicted at this time, the university believes that any settlement will not
have a material effect on the university’s financial position or the results of operations.
The university continues to review environmental objectives and liabilities for its activities and properties as well as any
potential remediation obligations. There may be contaminated sites that the university has identified that have the
potential to result in remediation obligations. A liability has not been recorded for these sites because the likelihood of
the university becoming responsible for the site is not determinable, the amount of the liability cannot be estimated, or
both. The university’s ongoing efforts to assess environmental liabilities may result in additional environmental
remediation liabilities related to newly identified sites, or changes in the assessments or intended use of existing sites.
Any changes to the environmental liabilities will be accrued in the year in which they are assessed as likely and
measurable.
March 31, 2024
Operating 
expense Capitalized
A ppropriation from 
accumulated surplus March 31, 2025
Campus development 11,029   (2,312)   (4,727)   1,006   4,996   
School of Business building 48,685   (219)  (37,596)  15,000   25,870   
Lifecycle replacement 4,500   -   -   1,500   6,000   
Student technology 1,881   (181)   (7)   1,007   2,700   
Total 66,095$    (2,712)$    (42,330)$    18,513$    39,566$    
Disbursements
Page | 83
83
---PDF PAGE 87---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
16) Co
ntractual rights and agreements
Contractual rights and agreements are the rights of the university to economic resources arising from contracts or
agreements that will result in both assets and revenues in the future when the terms of those contracts or agreements
are met.
Estimated amounts that will be received or receivable for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:
(1) The university executed a $125,000 Agreement with the Ministry of Advanced Education during 2023/24 fiscal year,
the purpose of which is to support the construction of a new School of Business building. Of the total Agreement
value, $15,000 was received to date with $20,000 included in the Government of Alberta’s 2026 budget and therefore
is included in the table above. Future payments included in the Agreement for 2027 - $ 45,000 and 2028 - $ 45,000
are subject to termination at the minister’s discretion and hence have not been included as a contractual right until
such time that they are approved in the Government of Alberta budget.
17) Contractual obligations
The university has contractual obligations, which are commitments that will become liabilities in the future when the terms
of the contracts or agreements are met. The estimated aggregate amounts payable for the unexpired terms of these
contractual obligations are as follows:
The university is one of 78 members of CURIE, the Canadian Universities Reciprocal Insurance Exchange, a self-
insurance reciprocal established to share the insurable property, liability, and errors and omissions risks of member 
universities. The projected cost of claims against the exchange is based on actuarial projections and is funded through 
members’ premiums. As at December 31, 2024, CURIE had an accumulated surplus of $130,336 (2023: $107,548), of 
Operating leases Other contracts and 
agreements (1) Total
2026 679$   26,229$   26,908$  
2027 431   0 2,596   3,027   
2028 208   0 1,284   1,492   
2029 -  0 1,276   1,276   
2030 -  1,292   1,292   
Thereafter -  0 13,953   13,953   
Total at March 31, 2025 1,318$   46,630$   47,948 $   
Total at March 31, 2024 889$   38,294$   39,183 $   
Service 
contracts
Information 
systems & 
technology
Capital 
projects
Long‑ term 
operating 
leases Total
2026 9,672$    2,618$    101,908$   182$   114,380$   
2027 550   1,332   30,048   80    32,010   
2028 440   920   209   83    1,652   
2029 -   809   -   35    844   
2030 -   292   -   -   292   
Thereafter -   -   -   -   -   
Total at March 31, 2025 10,662$   5,971$    132,165$   380$   149,178$   
Total at March 31, 2024 13,158$   4,776$    172,214$   957$   191,105$   
Page | 81
81
---PDF PAGE 88---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
whi
ch the university’s pro-rata share is approximately 0.60% (2023: 0.49%). This surplus is not recognized in the 
consolidated financial statements. 
18) Expenses by object
The following table summarizes expenses by object:
19) Related party transactions
The university is a related party with organizations within the Government of Alberta reporting entity. Key management
personnel of the university and their close family members are also considered related parties. The university may enter
into arm’s length transactions with these entities and individuals.
The university has debt with the Alberta Treasury Board and Finance as outlined in Note 8.
Budget 2025 2024
(Note 22)
Salaries 151,622$   157,818$   142,304$   
Employee benefits 30,508    31,916   27,951   
Materials, supplies and services 20,058    20,261   20,558   
Services and professional fees 20,335    21,534   17,888   
Facility, maintenance and utilities 16,987    14,385   17,196   
Amortization of tangible capital assets 16,730    17,322   17,098   
Cost of goods sold 3,055   2,781   3,199   
Scholarships and bursaries 8,548   10,187   10,202   
Interest on debt 1,960   1,960   2,177   
Loss on sale of tangible capital assets -   -   1,532   
Total expenses by object 269,803$   278,164$   260,105$   
Page | 82
82
---PDF PAGE 89---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
20) G
overnment transfers
2025 2024
Government of Alberta grants
Advanced Education:
Operating 113,582$    113,500$    
Scholarships and Awards -   920    
Capital 10,000   5,000   
Total Advanced Education 123,582    119,420    
Other Post-Secondary Institutions -   (10)   
Other Government of Alberta ministries and agencies:
Children and Family Services 882   661    
Education 93   -   
Immigration and Multiculturalism 50   -   
Alberta Health 5    5   
Technology and Innovation -   249    
Other -   108    
Total other Government of Alberta ministries and agencies 1,030   1,023   
Total contributions received 124,612    120,433    
Sent deferred capital contributions recognized as revenue 5,778   7,156   
Deferred revenue (11,522)   (8,156)   
Total Government of Alberta grants 118,868$    119,433$   
Federal and other government grants
Contributions received from federal government
Research 2,081$   1,558$   
Other 305   249    
Contributions received from municipal governments 168   81   
Sent deferred capital contributions recognized as revenue 65   58   
Deferred revenue 40   92   
Total Federal and other government grants 2,659$   2,038$   
Page | 83
83
---PDF PAGE 90---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
21) S
alaries and employee benefits
(1) The Chair and other members of the Board of Governors receive no remuneration for their services as members of
the Board of Governors.
(2) Base salary includes pensionable base pay.
(3) Other cash benefits include earnings such as vacation payouts, honoraria, car allowances and other lump-sum
payments, including severance. No bonuses were paid in 2025 (2024: $nil).
(4) For Governance, other non-cash benefits include parking privileges that members of the Board of Governors may
receive.
(5) For Executive, other non-cash benefits include the university's share of all employee benefits and contributions or
payments made on behalf of employees, including pension, supplemental retirement plans, health care, dental
coverage, group life insurance, short and long-term disability plans, professional memberships, tuition fees,
approved administrative leaves and the fair market value of parking.
(6) For Executive, under the terms of the supplemental retirement plan, executive officers may receive supplemental
retirement payments. Retirement arrangement costs, as detailed below, are not cash payments in the period but are
the period expense for rights to future compensation. The costs shown reflect the total estimated cost to provide
annual pension income over an actuarially determined post-employment period. The supplemental retirement plan
provides future pension benefits to participants based on years of service and earnings. The cost of these benefits
is actuarially determined using the projected benefit method prorated on services, a market interest rate, and
management's best estimate of expected costs and the period of benefits coverage. Net actuarial gains and losses
of the benefit obligations are amortized over the average remaining service life of the employee group. The current
service cost is the actuarial present value of the benefits earned in the current year. Interest and other costs include
interest and amortization of actuarial gains and losses.
(7) For President and Vice-Chancellor, other non-cash benefits include a non-cash accrual for contractual
administrative leave of $65 (2024: $63).
2024
Base 
salary
(2)
Other cash 
benefits
(3)
Other 
non-cash 
benefits 
(4) (5) (6) (7) Total Total
Governance (1)
Chair of the Board of Govenors $  - $  - $  - $  - $  -
Members of the Board of Governors - - 9 9 11
Executive
President and Vice-Chancellor 324 6 147 477 468
Provost and Vice-President, Academic 311 6 66 383 364
Vice-President, Finance and Administration & CFO 278 6 50 334 312
Vice-President, University Relations 260 6 56 322 262
2025
Page | 84
84
---PDF PAGE 91---
MacEwan University 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended March 31, 2025 
(thousands of dollars) 
T
he SRP current service costs and accrued benefit liabilities for each of the executives in the above table are outlined in the 
following table: 
The significant actuarial assumptions used to measure the accrued benefit obligation are disclosed in Note 7. 
22) Budget figures
The university’s 2024-25 budget was approved by the Board of Governors and submitted to the Minister of Advanced
Education.
23) Approval of financial statements
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Governors.
24) Comparative figures
Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Accrued 
benefit liability 
March 31, 2024
Current 
Service 
cost
Interest 
cost
Actuarial 
loss
Accrued 
benefit liability 
March 31, 2025
President and Vice-Chancellor 130$   35 $    8 $    $  - 173$    
Provost and Vice-President, 
Academic 113   22    7    24    166    
Vice-President, University 
Relations 5    6   - 5    16   
Vice-President, Finance and 
Administration & CFO 16   7   1    7    31   
Page | 85
85