GOVERNMENT OF ALBERTA




Education
Annual Report
2024-25
Education, Government of Alberta | Education Annual Report 2024 –2025

©2025 Government of Alberta | Published: June 2025
ISBN 978-1-4601-6283-5
ISSN 1918-2864

This publication is issued under the Open Government License – Alberta (http://open.alberta.ca/license).

Note to Readers: Copies of the annual report are available on the Alberta Open Government Portal website,
at https://open.alberta.ca/publications/1918-2864




ii                                                                                           Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
Table of Contents

Preface. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 2
Minister’s Accountability Statement .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3
Message from the Minister.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4
Management’s Responsibility for Reporting.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6
Results Analysis .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8
   Ministry Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
   Discussion and Analysis of Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
   Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
   Appendix: Key Education Partners. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Financial Information .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92
Other Financial Information .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124
Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 212
   Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                                                          1
INTRODUCTION



Preface

The Public Accounts of Alberta are prepared in accordance with the Financial Administration Act and the
Sustainable Fiscal Planning and Reporting Act. The Public Accounts consist of the annual report of the
Government of Alberta and the annual reports of each ministry.
The 2024-25 Annual Report reflects the 2024-27 Ministry business plans, the Government of Alberta
Strategic Plan, as well as the ministry’s activities and accomplishments during the 2024-25 fiscal year, which
ended on March 31, 2025.
The Annual Report of the Government of Alberta contains Budget 2024 Key Results, the audited
Consolidated Financial Statements and Performance Results, which compare actual performance results to
desired results set out in the government’s strategic plan.
This annual report of the Ministry of Education contains the Minister’s Accountability Statement, the
ministry’s Financial Information, and Results Analysis, a comparison of actual performance results to desired
results set out in the Ministry Business Plan. This ministry annual report also includes:
    • the financial statements of entities making up the ministry, including the Alberta School Foundation
      Fund, for which the minister is responsible;
    • other financial information as required by the Financial Administration Act and Sustainable Fiscal
      Planning and Reporting Act, as separate reports, to the extent that the ministry has anything to report;
      and
    • financial information relating to accountable organizations and trust funds, which includes the Alberta
      Teachers’ Retirement Fund and school jurisdictions in the public education system (public, separate
      and francophone regional authorities and charter schools).
All Ministry Annual Reports should be considered along with the Government of Alberta Annual Report
to provide a complete overview of government’s commitment to openness, accountability, and fiscal
transparency.




2                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                               INTRODUCTION



Minister’s Accountability Statement

The ministry’s annual report for the year ended March 31, 2025, was prepared under my direction in
accordance with the Sustainable Fiscal Planning and Reporting Act and the government’s accounting policies.
All the government’s policy decisions as at June 4, 2025 with material economic or fiscal implications of
which I am aware have been considered in the preparation of this report.


[Original signed by]
Demetrios Nicolaides
Minister of Education and Childcare




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                        3
INTRODUCTION



Message from the Minister

                                     Alberta Education and Childcare is committed to supporting the success
                                     of students and strengthening our education system. I am incredibly
                                     proud of the work we do in collaboration with our education partners to
                                     provide a world-class education for our children.
                                     During the 2024–25 fiscal year, Alberta Education made significant
                                     investments to reduce classroom sizes and build more schools for Alberta
                                     students and families. We improved our education funding model so that
                                     school boards are better positioned to respond to rising student numbers.
                                     We also introduced several new policies and programs designed to
                                     support student success and ensure we continue to maintain a well-run,
                                     world-leading education system.
In September 2024, we announced the School Construction Accelerator Program and made a generational
investment of $8.6 billion to build up to 100 new and modernized schools. This commitment means smaller
class sizes and schools closer to home—reducing commute times for students and families. Additionally,
Alberta Education created a streamlined funding process that allows these schools to be built faster. Since
beginning the program at the start of this school year, 33 school projects have already moved forward to the
next stage of the construction process.
In our classrooms, we have taken steps to strengthen learning foundations for our students. At the start of the
school year, we introduced a new policy removing cellphones and personal mobile devices from classrooms.
This change has helped limit distractions, allowing students to focus more effectively. We also enhanced
mandatory literacy and numeracy screening for students in Kindergarten to Grade 3, ensuring that children
needing extra help are identified early and receive the support they need. Beginning in the 2026–27 school
year, this screening will be expanded to include students in Grades 4 and 5.
This school year, we made significant progress in updating the provincial curriculum. The draft Kindergarten
to Grade 6 Social Studies curriculum was piloted by more than 2,100 teachers from 62 school authorities,
including a First Nations education authority. The curriculum is now ready to be implemented in
Kindergarten to Grade 3 classrooms starting in the 2025–26 school year.
Our proud tradition of offering Albertans a range of educational choices continued in 2024–25. With
funding for public, separate, francophone, charter, and independent schools, we provided more educational
options than ever before. We also made further investments to expand and enhance dual credit programs and
collegiate schools, giving students a head start on post-secondary studies and direct pathways to rewarding
careers.
In partnership with First Nations, Métis, and Inuit communities, we strengthened connections through our
Bridging Classrooms to Communities and Community Reconciliation grants. We also supported protocol
agreements with both the Blackfoot Confederacy and the Stoney Nakoda–Tsuut’ina Tribal Council. Work has
begun on a new Confederacy of Treaty 6 Education Work Plan, in collaboration with Advanced Education
and Indigenous Relations.




4                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                INTRODUCTION


Through the passage of the Education Amendment Act, 2024, we enhanced transparency and improved
communication with parents on public health measures in schools and important topics such as gender
identity, sexual orientation, and human sexuality. These changes will strengthen parental involvement in their
children’s education.
I am incredibly proud of all that we have accomplished and tremendously grateful to Alberta’s dedicated
teachers, school support staff, and our many education partners who help make it all possible. We look
forward to continuing our close collaboration to provide a world-class education for Alberta’s children.


[Original signed by]
Demetrios Nicolaides
Minister of Education and Childcare




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                           5
INTRODUCTION



Management’s Responsibility for Reporting
The Ministry of Education includes:
    • Department of Education;
    • Alberta School Foundation Fund; and
    • Alberta school authorities.
The executives of the individual entities within the ministry have the primary responsibility and accountability
for the respective entities. Collectively, the executives ensure the ministry complies with all relevant legislation,
regulations and policies.
Ministry business plans, annual reports, performance results and the supporting management information are
integral to the government’s fiscal and strategic plan, annual report, quarterly reports, and other financial and
performance reporting.
Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the accompanying ministry financial information and
performance results for the ministry rests with the Minister of Education and Childcare. Under the direction
of the Minister, I oversee the preparation of the ministry’s annual report, which includes the financial
information, performance results on all objectives and initiatives identified in the Ministry Business Plan, and
performance results for all ministry-supported commitments that were included in the 2024-27 Government
of Alberta Strategic Plan. The financial information and performance results, out of necessity, include amounts
that are based on estimates and judgments. The financial information is prepared using the government’s
stated accounting policies, which are based on Canadian public sector accounting standards. The performance
measures are prepared in accordance with the following criteria:
    • Reliable – information used in applying performance measure methodologies agrees with the
      underlying source data for the current and prior years’ results.
    • Understandable – the performance measure methodologies and results are presented clearly.
    • Comparable – the methodologies for performance measure preparation are applied consistently for the
      current and prior years’ results.
    • Complete – outcomes, performance measures and related targets match those included in the
      ministry’s Budget 2024.
As Deputy Minister, in addition to program responsibilities, I am responsible for the ministry’s financial
administration and reporting functions. The ministry maintains systems of financial management and internal
control which give consideration to costs, benefits and risks that are designed to:
    • provide reasonable assurance that transactions are properly authorized, executed in accordance with
      prescribed legislation and regulations, and properly recorded so as to maintain accountability of public
      money;
    • provide information to manage and report on performance;
    • safeguard the assets and properties of the province under ministry administration;
    • provide Executive Council, the President of Treasury Board and Minister of Finance, and the Minister
      of Education and Childcare the information needed to fulfill their responsibilities; and




6                                                                                 Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                      INTRODUCTION


    • facilitate preparation of Ministry business plans and annual reports required under the Sustainable
      Fiscal Planning and Reporting Act.
In fulfilling my responsibilities for the ministry, I have relied, as necessary, on the executives of the individual
entities within the ministry.


[Original signed by]
Lora Pillipow
Deputy Minister of Education and Childcare
June 4, 2025




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                 7
RESULTS ANALYSIS



Results Analysis
Table of Contents

Ministry Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
   Organizational Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
   Operational Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   Key Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Discussion and Analysis of Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
    Actions that support the priorities of the Government of Alberta Strategic Plan. . . . . . 14
    Outcome One: Alberta’s students are successful. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
    Outcome Two: First Nations, Métis and Inuit students in Alberta are successful. . . . . . 36
    Outcome Three: Alberta’s students have access to a variety of learning
    opportunities to enhance competitiveness in the modern economy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
    Outcome Four: Alberta’s K–12 education system and workforce are well-managed. . . . 58
Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Appendix: Key Education Partners. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91




8                                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                  RESULTS ANALYSIS



Ministry Overview

The Ministry of Education provides leadership, direction and oversight in the delivery of a student-centred
Early Childhood Services to Grade 12 education system that serves Alberta’s children and students.
The ministry is focused on:
• Student Success – Ensuring that the provincial curriculum provides opportunities for students to form
  the foundations for successful and fulfilling lives and supporting student mental health and well-being
  through collaboration across ministries. This includes monitoring student progress through comprehensive
  provincial assessments, including early literacy and numeracy screening, to identify and address student
  learning needs early on.
• Indigenous Education – Incorporating First Nations, Métis and Inuit histories, cultures, languages and
  perspectives in the provincial curriculum and collaborating with education partners to improve education
  outcomes for First Nations, Métis and Inuit students and help them throughout their learning journeys.
• Access to a Variety of Learning Opportunities – Providing Alberta’s students with a variety of career
  pathways to ensure access to post-secondary education or their chosen fields in the workforce and enhance
  their competitiveness in the modern economy. This includes enhancing career education programming,
  such as dual credit programs, and expanding access to collegiate school opportunities.
• Well Governed Education System and Workforce – Directing the education system and overseeing the
  administration of a variety of schooling options and education programs and services through legislation,
  provision of funds and planning suitable learning facilities. This also includes collaborating with school
  authorities to ensure teaching excellence.

Organizational Structure
The Ministry of Education consists of the Department of Education, the Alberta School Foundation Fund
and Alberta’s public, separate, francophone, charter and independent (private) school authorities. The ministry
leads an Early Childhood Services to Grade 12 education system that provides the foundation for all learners
to achieve provincial student learning outcomes, succeed in developing the knowledge, skills and competencies
needed to pursue their career interests and make meaningful contributions to their communities and the world.




                                                         Minister of
                                                         Education




                                                                        Independent
                                                         Independent                                     Alberta
                                        Francophone                    (Private) Early    Charter
    Department           School                            (Private)                                     School
                                          Regional                       Childhood        School
    of Education       Divisions1,2                        Schools                                     Foundation
                                        Authorities1,2                    Services       Operators2
                                                          Operators1                                      Fund
                                                                         Operators

1
    Includes supervision of home education programs
2
    Denotes a part of the public education system




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                               9
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Operational Overview

Department of Education
Alberta Education provides leadership, direction and oversight of the education system, and supports students,
parents, teachers and administrators from Early Childhood Services through Grade 12. The department
provides leadership and direction by developing and supporting the implementation of provincial curriculum
for all subjects and grades, helping school authorities implement ministry programs and policies and enabling
excellence among the education system’s teachers and leaders. The department has a role in facilitating access
to francophone education and supporting school authorities in serving students with diverse learning needs
and improving outcomes for First Nations, Métis and Inuit students.
The department is responsible for funding the education system, and provides oversight by establishing
guiding legislation and policy, setting standards and assessing outcomes, ensuring accountability for financial
and performance outcomes and providing direction to school authorities to inform their planning and
reporting.

Alberta School Foundation Fund
The Alberta School Foundation Fund receives tax revenues from municipalities based on the equalized
assessment of real property in Alberta and education mill rates established by the lieutenant-governor in
council. In 2024-25, the education system received $2.5 billion in education property taxes (including opted
out school boards) to support students, parents, teachers and administrators from Early Childhood Services to
Grade 12.

School Authorities
School authorities include public and separate school boards, francophone regional authorities, charter
school operators, independent (private) school operators and independent (private) Early Childhood Services
operators. These school authorities provide programs for children and students in the province’s Early
Childhood Services to Grade 12 education system in accordance with the Education Act.




10                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                            RESULTS ANALYSIS


Key Highlights
The Ministry of Education focused on accomplishing four outcomes identified in the 2024-27 Ministry
Business Plan:
• Alberta’s students are successful.
• First Nations, Métis and Inuit students in Alberta are successful.
• Alberta’s students have access to a variety of learning opportunities to enhance competitiveness in the
  modern economy.
• Alberta’s Kindergarten to Grade 12 education system and workforce are well managed.

Key highlights and results achieved by the Ministry of Education in 2024-25 include:
• Increased the number of student spaces by providing $2.8 billion for school construction as a three-year
  capital investment, funding 99 school projects in various stages across the province.
• Through the School Construction Accelerator Program, an additional $8.6 billion for school construction
  is committed, which will deliver more than 100 new and updated schools over the next seven years.
• Provided $9.3 billion in education system funding to ensure the Early Childhood Services to Grade 12
  education system continues to support children and students to develop their knowledge and skills and
  achieve learning outcomes.
   - In the 2024-25 school year, more than 794,000 children and students were registered in Early
     Childhood Services to Grade 12 education across Alberta, an increase of 3.1 per cent from the previous
     school year.
   - Revised the funding framework from a three to two-year enrolment average to address enrolment
     growth while protecting school authorities with declining enrolment. The new framework will be
     implemented in the 2025-26 school year.
• Released an updated Ministerial Order on Student Learning, focusing on career education, knowledge
  and skills development, educational programming and preparing students to be active and engaged
  citizens. To ensure alignment of curriculum development with the updated Ministerial Order on Student
  Learning, the department also released an updated Guiding Framework for the Design and Development
  of Kindergarten to Grade 12 Curriculum in April 2024.
• Invested approximately $31 million to support curriculum renewal to ensure Alberta students have the
  knowledge and skills to support their future success.
• Funded teacher professional learning and the development of learning and teaching resources to support
  the province-wide implementation of new Science, French Language and Literature and French Immersion
  Language Arts and Literature curricula for Grades 4 to 6;
   - Supported piloting of the new draft Kindergarten to Grade 6 Social Studies curriculum in 62 school
     authorities; and
   - Began engagement with teachers, school leaders and Albertans to inform the development of draft
     Grades 7 to 9 Mathematics and Social Studies curricula and Grades 7 to 10 Physical Education and
     Wellness and Career and Life Management curricula.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                        11
RESULTS ANALYSIS


• Introduced enhanced Literacy and Numeracy Screening Assessments for students in Kindergarten to Grade
  5 to ensure early identification of students who need additional supports.
     - Starting January 2025, Kindergarten children had their literacy and numeracy skills screened through a
       consistent, province-wide approach.
     - Students in Grades 1 to 3 identified as requiring additional support in January are screened a third time
       at the end of the school year to monitor their progress.
     - New screening requirements for Grades 4 to 5 students will begin in September 2026.
     - $10 million was invested in Literacy and Numeracy Support Funding to support literacy and numeracy
       skill development for students identified as needing extra supports through the screening assessments.
     - An additional $7.5 million was provided for Literacy and Numeracy Support Funding for 2024-25
       to further support school authorities in providing interventions to students who require additional
       supports.
• Transitioned the General Education Development program to the Canadian Adult Education Credential to
  support adults who do not have a high school diploma to receive the credential and open new doors to
  education or employment opportunities.
• Addressed classroom complexity by providing $42.5 million in learning support funding through the
  Classroom Complexity Grant for the 2024-25 school year.
     - Approximately $480,000 from this funding will be used to increase the number of educational assistant
       graduates in the province through the Educational Assistant Internship program. To date, 281
       participants have completed the program to become educational assistants or enhance their skills.
• Limited distractions in Alberta’s classrooms and protected student mental health through the Standards for
  the Use of Personal Mobile Devices and Social Media in Schools.
     - The new standards on personal mobile devices established restrictions, enforcement procedures
       and exceptions for Alberta’s Kindergarten to Grade 12 public, separate, francophone, charter and
       independent (private) schools and independent (private) Early Childhood Services operators.
• Supported school authorities in fostering positive student mental health by providing $20 million to the
  Mental Health in Schools pilot program.
     - Education is also working with Mental Health and Addiction and CASA Mental Health to expand in-
       school support for students facing complex mental health challenges.
• Continued to collaborate with Indigenous communities, partners and education stakeholders to enhance
  educational outcomes for First Nations, Métis and Inuit students.
     - $3.4 million was distributed to 12 grant recipients of the Bridging Classrooms to Communities
       Grant pilot program to help strengthen student connections and foster relationships with Indigenous
       communities and advance truth and reconciliation.
     - $250,000 was provided to the Blackfoot Confederacy and $250,000 was provided to the Stoney
       Nakoda-Tsuut’ina Tribal Council (G4) to support the implementation of protocol agreements.
     - $250,000 was invested to develop the first ever Alberta Education and Confederacy of Treaty 6
       Education Work Plan in collaboration with Advanced Education and Indigenous Relations.
• Expanded career education opportunities by investing almost $4.4 million into dual credit grants. A total
  of 79 grants were awarded to 60 school authorities to support 57 start-up grants and enhance 22
  enhancement grants.



12                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                           RESULTS ANALYSIS


• Supported school authorities in recruiting qualified individuals to teach Career and Technology Studies
  while working towards their Interim Professional Certification through the Bridge to Teacher Certification
  program. Approximately $625,000 was provided to support 25 tradespeople to qualify for an interim
  teaching certificate while completing a university bridging program.
• Distributed the Home Education Grant of $1,802 per student to support more than 21,500 students
  enrolled in home education programs across Alberta and allocated $1.8 million in the 2024-25 school year
  to continue the Home Education Kindergarten pilot program.
• Expanded access to collegiate school opportunities to expand students’ pathways into post-secondary
  education and the workforce by:
   - Investing $23.7 million to support start-up and expansion costs for collegiate schools, supporting seven
     new collegiate school programs to begin operations for the 2024-25 school year. This increased the total
     number of collegiate schools in the province from five to 12, offering more than 30 unique pathways.
• Amended the Education Act through the Education Amendment Act, 2024 to support families and students
  navigating complex conversations around gender identity, sexual orientation and human sexuality, while
  also supporting continuity in a student’s learning during a public health emergency or state of emergency.
  New and amended sections of the Education Act relating to notification and consent for health measures,
  the right to education during emergencies and updated requirements for shifts to at-home learning came
  into force on March 1, 2025.
• Dealt with student transportation-system challenges by addressing ride times, transportation cost pressures
  and affordability, including reducing the distance criteria for student transportation eligibility.

The Ministry of Education remains committed to regulatory approaches and program delivery that reduces
unnecessary government oversight and emphasizes outcomes to improve access to government services, attract
investment, support innovation and competitiveness and grow Alberta businesses.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                      13
RESULTS ANALYSIS



Discussion and Analysis of Results

Actions that support the priorities of the Government of Alberta Strategic Plan


     Key Priority Two:
     Investing in Albertans
     Objective three:
     Providing high quality education and opportunities for skill development
     Actions:
     • Allocating $2 billion over three years towards maintaining and enhancing existing school infrastructure and
       building new schools, to address the needs of Alberta’s growing communities. Detailed reporting found on
       page 65.
     • Supporting students with complex learning needs through specialized learning supports, and improved
       access to educational assistants and qualified professionals. Detailed reporting found on pages 37 and
       61-63.
     • Supporting relationship-building between Indigenous communities and schools, including providing
       guidance to First Nations education authorities, and using tools such as framework agreements to boost
       education outcomes for Indigenous students. Detailed reporting found on pages 36-38.
     • Enhancing career education programming and increasing collegiate school opportunities to ensure a
       variety of career pathways for students to enter post-secondary education or the workforce. Government
       is building a skilled, educated and engaged workforce for the future to prepare students for well-paying
       jobs following the successful completion of their programs, and address current and longer-term skilled
       labour market challenges. Detailed reporting found on page 49.
     Objective six:
     Forming lasting and meaningful partnerships with Indigenous communities
     Action:
     • Working with the federal government and First Nations, Métis and Inuit communities to improve access to
       key services such as education and healthcare for Indigenous peoples, no matter where they reside in the
       province. Detailed reporting found on page 36.




14                                                                                 Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                            RESULTS ANALYSIS


Outcome One: Alberta’s students are successful
Alberta Education provides leadership, direction and oversight in the delivery of a student-centred Early
Childhood Services to Grade 12 education system that serves Alberta’s children and students. In 2024-25,
the ministry continued to update and implement provincial curriculum to provide Alberta students with
foundational knowledge and essential skills needed for future success. The ministry monitors student progress
through administration of provincial assessments to ensure that Alberta’s Kindergarten to Grade 12 education
system remains accountable and responsive to students’ needs. Alberta Education also collaborates with other
ministry partners to expand mental health and well-being supports in schools and communities to empower
students with the necessary resources to thrive in learning and life.
Student success was achieved by:
• continuing to offer curriculum that provides students with literacy, numeracy, citizenship and practical
  skills;
• collaborating with other ministries to expand mental health and well-being supports for students; and
• developing and maintaining comprehensive provincial assessments, including early literacy and numeracy
  screening, to assess progress, identify learning challenges and monitor student success.

Key Objectives
1.1   Continue to offer curriculum that provides students with literacy, numeracy, citizenship and
      practical skills.

Curriculum Renewal and Engagement
Alberta Education is committed to providing students with a curriculum that drives their passion for learning
and prepares them for success in the classroom and beyond. In 2024-25, approximately $31 million was
invested in renewing Kindergarten to Grade 12 curriculum. This funding supported:
• implementation of new Grades 4 to 6 curriculum for Science, French First Language and Literature and
  French Immersion Language Arts and Literature;
• classroom piloting of new Kindergarten to Grade 6 Social Studies curriculum;
• development and procurement of learning and teaching resources aligned to the new curriculum;
• opportunities for teacher professional learning; and
• enhancements to the digital learning platform new.LearnAlberta.ca (curriculum.learnalberta.ca).

In 2024-25, Alberta Education continued curriculum renewal through an open, transparent and collaborative
process. As part of the curriculum engagement process, Alberta Education released an updated Ministerial
Order on Student Learning and the Guiding Framework for the Design and Development of Kindergarten
to Grade 12 Curriculum. The new ministerial order took effect on April 25, 2024, and focuses on career
education, knowledge and skills development, educational programming and preparing students to be active
and engaged citizens. The updated guiding framework sets clear direction for creating a developmentally
appropriate curriculum that upholds high academic standards and promotes personal excellence.
A new draft Kindergarten to Grade 6 Social Studies curriculum was released on April 26, 2024, for optional
classroom piloting in the 2024-25 school year. Alberta Education also began engagement with education
partners, including system leaders, First Nations education directors, subject experts and teachers to inform
the development of draft curriculum for Grades 7 to 9 Math, Grades 7 to 9 Social Studies, Grades 7 to 10



Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                           15
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Physical Education and Wellness and Career and Life Management. Out of 440 teachers nominated by
the Alberta Teachers’ Association and school authorities, 107 were selected to participate in the Teacher
Curriculum Consultation Group. They represent a diverse group of certificated teachers with a wide range of
subject matter expertise, including teachers from Indigenous communities, francophone communities and
all school authority types across geographic locations. This engagement approach helps ensure continuity
and alignment of proposed draft curriculum across grades as it progresses from elementary to junior high
school subjects. Feedback received from engagement will inform new draft curriculum in spring 2025, with
classroom piloting to begin in the 2025-26 school year.

Curriculum Implementation
In 2024-25, Alberta Education provided more than $14.3 million to school authorities to support province-
wide implementation of new Grades 4 to 6 Science, French First Language and Literature and French
Immersion Language Arts and Literature curricula. This funding included more than $6.7 million for
professional learning and more than $7.6 million to develop or acquire learning and teaching resources to
ensure schools have access to resources that are aligned to new curriculum and meet their students’ learning
needs.
Alberta Education authorized more than 220 learning and teaching resources in French and English
aligned with new Kindergarten to Grade 6 curriculum and facilitated 12 professional learning sessions
for education partners to raise awareness of resources and supports available on new.LearnAlberta.ca
(curriculum.learnalberta.ca). The bilingual platform provides a variety of teacher planning and collaboration
tools, including sample lesson plans and the Provincial Resource Review Guide to support the implementation
of new curriculum.

Classroom Piloting
Curriculum renewal funding in 2024-25 included more than $1.1 million to support classroom piloting
of the new draft Kindergarten to Grade 6 Social Studies curriculum. More than 2,100 teachers from 62
public, separate, francophone, charter and independent (private) school authorities, as well as a First Nations
education authority, piloted the new draft Kindergarten to Grade 6 Social Studies curriculum in the 2024-25
school year. Engagement sessions with classroom piloting teachers focused on professional learning to support
understanding of the draft curriculum and on collecting teacher feedback. This feedback was used to refine
draft curriculum before it was released for classroom piloting.
Piloting teachers were eligible to claim up to $1,000 ($200 per day for a maximum of five days) to participate
in professional learning and/or teacher collaboration meetings. School authorities were also reimbursed for
release time associated with substitute teachers. Department staff provided three virtual sessions in fall 2024
for piloting teachers to gather feedback, share experiences, support professional learning and identify areas
requiring further assistance.
Classroom piloting investments in 2024-25 included $350,000 in grant funding to The Edmonton Catholic
Separate School Division to support piloting activities and resource development and $220,000 in contracts
with The Edmonton School Division and The Christ the Redeemer Catholic Separate School Division
for the development of learning and teaching resources to support new draft Social Studies curriculum
implementation.
More than 500 learning and teaching resources were published on new.LearnAlberta.ca (curriculum.
learnalberta.ca) to support piloting of draft Kindergarten to Grade 6 Social Studies curriculum in English
and French.




16                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                              RESULTS ANALYSIS


Financial Literacy
In 2024-25, Alberta Education continued to develop new curriculum to enhance financial literacy education
with the goal of providing students with opportunities for developing an understanding of economic
development, economic decision making and financial well-being.
Alberta Education continued to partner with Enriched Academy to provide financial literacy programming
for school authorities. In 2024-25, Enriched Academy received a $900,000 grant to provide Alberta students
with enhanced learning opportunities related to financial literacy, including money management, budgeting,
tax-free savings accounts and registered retirement savings plans, credit, student loans and saving across their
lifespan. As of June 2024, more than 360,000 Kindergarten to Grade 12 students have participated in these
learning opportunities. Student participation information for 2024-25 will be available in fall 2025.

French Language Education
Alberta Education recognizes the importance of preserving and promoting the French language and
francophone culture by ensuring francophone students have access to a quality education in French. The
department also supports French-language education through various programs, including French Immersion
and French as a Second Language courses.
Alberta Education supported the Official Languages in Education Programs by leading negotiations with
the federal government on the Canada-Alberta Agreement on Minority-Language Education and Second-
Language Instruction. In 2024-25, Alberta Education distributed $19.8 million in funding for francophone
education, French immersion programming and French as a Second Language courses.
The department also led the working group for the development of provincial standards and credentialing for
French immersion programming. The working group met twice in 2024 and will meet again in April 2025 to
advance recommendations that help promote the programs and incentivize more students to remain in French
immersion programs at the high school level.

Pan-Canadian Programs
Alberta Education worked with school authorities and the Council of Ministers of Education, Canada
Secretariat to administer the Odyssey pan-Canadian program. Odyssey participants, also called language
assistants, work directly in classrooms with French language teachers to provide students the opportunity
to interact with a native speaker, employ the language in daily life, and gain a deeper understanding of
francophone culture. In 2024-25, 78 French language assistants worked in 54 schools across four francophone
regional authorities and 20 public and separate school authorities.
Alberta Education also worked with the Council of Ministers of Education, Canada Secretariat to support
opportunities for Alberta students to participate in spring and summer pan-Canadian programs. These
programs promote francophone culture and expose Alberta’s students to francophone regions across Canada
while enhancing their French-speaking skills. During the 2024-25 school year:
    • 34 students were enrolled in the Destination Clic program;
    • 388 students from Alberta participated in the Explore program that occurred outside of the province;
      and
    • 221 students are registered to participate in the Alberta Explore sessions that will be held in
      collaboration with the University of Alberta, University of Calgary and Medicine Hat College.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                          17
RESULTS ANALYSIS


International Education
Alberta Education continued to embrace the diversity of the province’s population and support initiatives
that promote an understanding and respect of connections and differences between the world’s people. The
ministry contributes to building a globally skilled workforce by providing Alberta students with opportunities
to develop global competencies and intercultural skills.
In 2024-25, Alberta Education continued to administer student exchange programs (virtual and/or in-person)
with Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Quebec, Spain and Ukraine. Through in-person programs, Alberta
students are paired with students from a region that speaks the language they are learning and alternate
sharing their homes, schools and communities with their partner for two to three months at a time. In virtual
programs, student partners participate in weekly online meetings over six weeks. Students take turns hosting
meetings and discussing various topics. Both in-person and virtual exchanges provide valuable personal
and academic experiences and provide valuable opportunities for developing intercultural awareness and
appreciation.
Alberta Education signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the state of Hesse, Germany on
June 10, 2024. The MOU reaffirms the long-standing relationship for the education exchange program for
students, teachers and school administrators, and promotes partnerships between schools in both jurisdictions
based on mutual interests and shared goals in language learning, career and technology studies and other
areas of common interest. The agreement will be used to formalize regular connections, strengthen existing
partnerships and promote collaboration that will improve the education system of both jurisdictions.
The MOU will be effective for five years, with an option for renewal. By collaborating with international
jurisdictions to exchange knowledge about educational programming, Alberta’s government is better
positioning students to achieve academic success while increasing their competitiveness to pursue post-
secondary studies and high-demand careers in Alberta’s job market.

1.2   Collaborate with other ministries to expand mental health and well-being supports for students.

Alberta Education continued to support school authorities in providing mental health supports and
services that focus on prevention, promotion and early short-term intervention within the education
system. Additionally, the ministry collaborated with other ministries, such as Health and Mental Health and
Addiction, and partners, including Alberta Health Services and school authorities, to build an integrated
pathway to support access to appropriate health-related services and supports at school and in the community.
For example, a new specialized education program was established in 2024-25 in partnership with The Red
Deer School Division to support Recovery Alberta’s Step Up Step Down program. This program supports
youth aged 13 to 17 who have significant addiction and mental health concerns and ensures that they have
access to an education program while they receive treatment.

Mental Health Supports
Alberta Education continued to implement programs and services to support student mental health. In 2024-
25, the ministry collaborated with Mental Health and Addiction to enhance the integration of child and
youth recovery-oriented addiction and mental health supports in schools and communities.

Mental Health in Schools Pilot
Alberta Education continued the Mental Health in Schools pilot project to improve the delivery of mental
health supports and services for students and provision of tools, training and resources for the school
community. In 2024-25, the ministry provided $20 million to support 79 two-year pilot projects in school
authorities across the province. This included funding to extend 59 of those Mental Health in Schools pilots
that were initially set to end in December 2024, to continue until June 2025.


18                                                                           Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                             RESULTS ANALYSIS


CASA Mental Health Classrooms
CASA Mental Health Classrooms is a joint initiative between Mental Health and Addiction and Alberta
Education. In these highly specialized classrooms, students receive individual therapy, group therapy and
psychiatric care to support their recovery. The program is funded by Mental Health and Addiction and
delivered by CASA Mental Health, with each classroom supporting up to 12 students. As of March 31, 2025,
there were 20 mental health classrooms in operation.

Integrated School Support Program
Alberta Education continued to collaborate with school authorities to assist Mental Health and Addiction
and the Calgary Police Youth Foundation to expand the Integrated School Support Program. The program
provides school-based prevention and early intervention wraparound supports in elementary schools,
consisting of meal programs, after school care, structured physical education, a positive police presence and
access to mental health professionals. The program is funded by Mental Health and Addiction. As of March
31, 2025, there are 31 schools in 22 communities across the province offering this program.

Standards for the Use of Personal Mobile Devices and Social Media
Alberta Education took a measured approach to protect students by establishing Standards for the Use of
Personal Mobile Devices and Social Media in Schools, which came into effect on September 1, 2024. While
personal mobile devices can be useful tools to support learning, access to personal mobile devices and social
media can also negatively impact student achievement and mental well-being.
The standards were informed by feedback from more than 68,000 students, parents and education
stakeholders who responded to an online survey that was available from April 16 to May 3, 2024. Almost
90 per cent of respondents shared concerns over student cellphone use at school. Education partners,
represented by eight stakeholder associations also participated in virtual discussions with Alberta Education
on April 22 and 23, 2024.
The new standards on personal mobile devices established restrictions, enforcement procedures and exceptions
for Alberta’s Kindergarten to Grade 12 public, separate, francophone, charter and independent (private)
schools and independent (private) Early Childhood Services operators. Exceptions have been made for
students using mobile devices for health and medical needs, to support specialized learning needs and for
educational purposes. Individual school authorities were also required to develop and implement policies
that outline how exceptions will be managed and what the consequences will be for non-compliance at their
respective schools. The standards not only serve to reduce distractions in the classroom but also reduce online
bullying, maximize learning time and support student mental health.

Supporting the Safety and Well-being of Students
In 2024-25, Alberta Education continued to promote the safety and well-being of students by providing
resources and sharing best practices with school authorities and educators. Resources include educational
material to support teachers to recognize, prevent and respond to bullying in school; principles and procedures
to help schools ensure Grades 1 to 9 students are physically active for at least 30 minutes each day; and
information about peer support networks to help create a welcoming, caring, respectful, safe and inclusive
space for students.
Alberta Education continued to support the school nutrition program with an annual funding of $20 million,
providing more than 58,000 students across Alberta with a daily meal and snacks. In March 2025, the
Government of Alberta and the Government of Canada ratified the Canada-Alberta National School Food
Program Agreement. This agreement secured approximately $42.2 million in federal funding over three years



Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                           19
RESULTS ANALYSIS


to support the expansion of Alberta’s school nutrition program in the 2025-26 and 2026-27 school years
and ensure more students from participating schools are provided with a daily nutritious meal or snacks.
Alberta Education supported Ukrainian newcomers and their families by hosting information sessions on
Alberta’s education system in Edmonton and in Calgary on April 2 and May 6, 2024. More than 100 guests
attended the sessions and there have been more than 5,000 views on the Ukrainian Canadian Congress Alberta
Chapter Facebook page recording and live stream of the events. The department also worked with the Ukrainian
government to provide an opportunity for students from Ukraine to write the Ukrainian National Multi-
Subject Test in June 2024 – an entrance exam for Ukrainian students entering post-secondary institutions
in Ukraine.

Minister’s Youth Council
Alberta Education continued to encourage student voices and support student engagement through the
Minister’s Youth Council. For its 2024-25 term, 40 students from across the province came together in
October 2024 and January 2025 to discuss various topics with each other, the Minister and department staff.

1.3   Develop and maintain comprehensive provincial assessments, including early years literacy and
      numeracy screening, to assess progress, identify learning challenges and monitor student success.

Literacy and Numeracy Screening Assessments
Reading and math skills are important for lifelong success in and out of the classroom. Assessing student
progress during the critical early years can help teachers identify student strengths and areas where support
in literacy and numeracy may be needed to ensure the best possible learning outcomes for each child.
In July 2024, Alberta Education introduced an enhanced screening requirement following engagement sessions
with school authorities, education stakeholders and academic experts. Feedback on the existing approach for
early years assessments as well as perspectives on improvements helped in developing the enhanced literacy and
numeracy screening requirement. The twice-yearly screening for students in Grades 1 to 3 began in fall 2024.
Students in Grades 1 to 3 identified as needing additional support in January are screened a third time at the
end of the school year to monitor their progress. Assessment data submitted to the department indicated high
usage of government-provided literacy and numeracy screeners, with preliminary trends demonstrating that
an additional January screening was helpful in identifying students requiring supports.
• In numeracy, of those students identified as not requiring additional supports in September 2024,
  approximately 10 per cent were identified as requiring additional supports through the additional January
  screening requirement.
• In literacy, of those students identified as not requiring additional supports in September 2024,
  approximately 9 per cent were identified as requiring additional supports through the additional January
  screening requirement.

In addition, province-wide literacy and numeracy assessments started in January 2025 for children in
Kindergarten. New screening requirements for Grades 4 and 5 students will begin in September 2026. By
consistently screening the literacy and numeracy skills of students from Kindergarten through Grade 5, teachers
and educational professionals will be better able to identify gaps and provide targeted support to ensure student
success.
To support teachers in administering literacy screening assessments to students, Alberta Education added video
resources to new.LearnAlberta.ca (curriculum.learnalberta.ca), providing step by step instructions, examples
and visuals. A variety of other resources were made available for teachers and school authorities, including an
updated list of government-approved screening assessments, support guides, intervention lesson plans and more.



20                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                RESULTS ANALYSIS


In 2024, the Learning Disruption Funding was renamed the Literacy and Numeracy Support Funding and
expanded to include Kindergarten children. Through the grant, $10 million was made available to school
authorities for 2024-25 to support the literacy and numeracy skill development for students identified as
requiring extra support through the screening assessments.
In March 2025, Alberta Education announced an additional $7.5 million of support funding for 2024-25 to
ensure that schools have the necessary resources and staff to provide interventions for students in Kindergarten
to Grade 3, helping to prevent any student from falling behind in reading and math.

Student Evaluation and Assessments
Student evaluation and assessment is an integral part of the teaching and learning process. Assessment
information is used to improve student learning, enhance instruction to students and ensure that student
learning needs are met. While no individual assessment can provide a complete picture of a student’s knowledge
and skills, standardized assessments such as diploma examinations and provincial achievement tests provide
consistent measures of student achievement.
In 2024-25, Alberta Education continued to develop, administer and mark provincial achievement tests and
diploma examinations to report student achievement, ensure standards are maintained and assist schools, school
authorities and the province in monitoring and improving student learning.
Although the implementation of new curriculum in English Language Arts and Literature and Math for
Grade 6 students became mandatory in the 2023-24 school year, Grade 6 provincial achievement tests in
English Language Arts and Literature and Math were not administered. This gave teachers and students an
additional year to become familiar with the new curriculum. Instead, more than 59,000 field tests in these
subjects were administered between April and June 2024. The results demonstrated that students achieved
reasonable proficiency in the tested concepts. Alberta Education will administer Grade 6 provincial achievement
tests in English Language Arts and Literature and Math in 2024-25.
Similarly, Grade 6 provincial achievement tests for the first year of implementation of the new curricula in
French First Language and Literature, French Immersion Language Arts and Literature and Science will not
be administered in 2024-25; field testing of updated assessments occurred instead.
Alberta Education continued transitioning to a new digital platform for provincial assessments. The transition to
digital assessments is being implemented through an incremental process to allow teachers and students time to
learn and adjust. The 2024-25 school year was the second year of optional implementation of Humanities Part
A: Written Response diploma examinations and provincial achievement tests on the digital assessment platform.
Nearly all school authorities are now administering either provincial assessments or field tests using
the platform.

Canadian Adult Education Credential
Earning a high school diploma or equivalency credential is a key education milestone that provides the
foundation for future education, career opportunities and personal success. In May 2024, Alberta successfully
transitioned to the Canadian Adult Education Credential (CAEC) from the General Educational Development
(GED) program. The CAEC project began in 2019 under the Council of Ministers of Education, Canada.
Alberta Education led the development of the CAEC high school equivalency credential, working with other
jurisdictions to develop a fair, reliable and credible assessment that accurately reflects the skills and competencies
that employers and post-secondary institutions would expect from a Canadian senior high school equivalency
credential. Like the GED, the CAEC is for adults who do not have a high school diploma but need a credential
to open new doors to education or employment opportunities. The CAEC comprises five subject-area tests
in French or English: reading, writing, math, science and social studies. Eight provinces and territories have
signed agreements with Alberta to deliver the assessments. In 2024-25, approximately 3,500 CAEC exams were
administered in Alberta.

Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                             21
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Outcome One Performance Measures

Performance Measure 1.a:
       High School Completion
Rationale
• High school completion is important for entry to the labour force and post-secondary programs.
  While most students complete high school within three years of entering Grade 10, the five-year rate
  recognizes that it may take more time for some students to finish high school.
• Alberta’s high school completion rate includes students who earn a high school diploma or certificate
  of high school achievement and students who enter an Alberta post-secondary institution or an
  apprenticeship program within five years of entering Grade 10. Another group comprises those who
  have earned credits in a minimum of five Grade 12 courses, including one Language Arts diploma
  examination course and three other diploma examination courses.
Target
• The target was not met.

Discussion
• In 2023-24, 87.1 per cent of students completed high school within five years of entering Grade 10.
• The high school completion rate has increased over time by 0.9 per cent, from 86.2 per cent in 2019-20
  to 87.1 per cent in 2023-24 (Chart 1.a).
• Participation in diploma examinations was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Diploma examinations
  were cancelled in April and June of 2020, and participation was optional during the 2020-21 school year.
  During this period, students who did not write diploma examinations received an exemption and their
  official mark was based solely on their school-awarded mark. In 2021-22, the January administration of
  diploma examinations was cancelled to support students affected by learning disruptions and the weighting
  of diploma examinations was temporarily lowered from 30 per cent to 10 per cent. The changes to the
  administration and weighting of diploma examinations may have affected the high school completion
  rates and caution should be exercised when interpreting the trend over time.
• The three-year high school completion rate is highly correlated with the five-year rate as most students
  included in the five-year rate complete high school in three years. For the cohort that entered Grade
  10 in 2019-20, 80.7 per cent of students completed high school within three years while 87.1 per cent
  completed high school within five years (Table 1.a). This makes the three-year rate a reliable predictor of
  the five-year rate in subsequent years. Projections indicate the five-year rate is likely to fluctuate over the
  next few years.
• Additionally, some students who do not complete high school in the Kindergarten to Grade 12 education
  system do so as young adults in the adult learning system. In 2024, 94.9 per cent of Albertans aged 25 to
  34 reported they had completed high school. This result has remained stable over time.




22                                                                               Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                 RESULTS ANALYSIS



Chart 1.a: High School Completion Rate of Students
Within Five Years of Entering Grade 10

100%
            86.2%     87.1%      88.6%      88.1%      87.1%      88.8%




     0%
           2019-20    2020-21    2021-22    2022-23   2023-24     Target


Source: Alberta Education

Notes:
•     Results for this measure lag a year, as the school year concludes after the government fiscal year ends.
•     The target for 2023-24 was set in February 2024 based on 2021-22 data.
•     Included in the calculation of high school completion rates is an estimated adjustment for attrition
      (i.e., students moving out of province) using Statistics Canada estimates of out-migration.
•     See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results relative to targets.
•     See Endnote C, High School Completion Rates, page 87.


Table 1.a: Percentages of Students Who Completed High School
Within Three and Five Years of Entering Grade 10
    Grade 10 Year          3-Year Rate and Year                5-Year Rate and Year
       2015-16                                                 86.2%           2019-20
       2016-17                                                 87.1%           2020-21
       2017-18             83.4%           2019-20             88.6%           2021-22
       2018-19             83.2%           2020-21             88.1%           2022-23
       2019-20             80.7%           2021-22             87.1%           2023-24
       2020-21             80.4%           2022-23
       2021-22             81.4%           2023-24
Source: Alberta Education




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                          23
 RESULTS ANALYSIS



 Supplementary Information
       Annual Dropout Rate – All Students
 Rationale
 • The student dropout rate is an indicator of how well the needs of students at risk of not completing high
   school are being addressed by the Kindergarten to Grade 12 education system.

 Discussion
 • The dropout rate is considered a leading indicator for the high school completion rate.
 • Enrolment data indicates that 2.4 per cent of students aged 14–18 dropped out of school in 2023-24.
 • The dropout rate has improved over time.
 • The ministry continues to implement strategies focused on improving student, parent and community
   engagement in order to reduce drop out rates and encourage students to complete high schools.
 • Dropping out of school may be a temporary interruption of a student’s education. Of the students who
   dropped out in 2022-23, about 19 per cent resumed their education in 2023-24.
 • Some students who do not complete high school in the Kindergarten to Grade 12 education system do so
   as young adults in the adult learning system.

Annual Dropout Rates of Students Aged 14–18
 Annual Dropout Rates of Students Aged 14-18

 20%




           2.6%      2.3%      2.5%      2.5%      2.4%

     0%
          2019-20   2020-21   2021-22   2022-23   2023-24


Source: Alberta Education
 Source: Alberta Education


 Notes:
 •    Students aged 14-18 who, in the following year, did not complete high school and are not enrolled in school (a
      Kindergarten to Grade 12 school, an Alberta post-secondary institution or apprenticeship program) are included in the
      annual dropout rate. For example, students aged 14-18 in 2022-23 were tracked for one year. Those who were not enrolled
      and had not completed are included in the 2023-24 dropout rate.
 •    See Endnote C, page 86, for more information on the calculation of the Annual Dropout Rate.




 24                                                                                      Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS



Performance Measure 1.b:
       High School to Post-Secondary Transition Rate
Rationale
• Post-secondary education equips students with valuable skills and knowledge to increase their
  opportunities for success and full participation in society. Entering post-secondary and/or apprenticeship
  programs indicates that high school students are prepared for further education and training.

Target
• The target was met, as the current result is not significantly different from the target value.

Discussion
• In 2023-24, 59.9 per cent of Alberta’s high school students made the transition to an Alberta post-
  secondary institution within six years of entering Grade 10.
• The six-year high school to post-secondary transition rate has remained stable over time (Chart 1.b).
• The four-year and the six-year high school to post-secondary transition rates are highly correlated for the
  same Grade 10 cohort. The difference between the four-year and six-year high school to post-secondary
  transition rates indicates that a substantial proportion of Alberta’s students delay their entry to post-
  secondary programs after high school. (Table 1.b)
• The four-year high school to post-secondary transition rate is also a reliable predictor of the six-year high
  school to post-secondary transition rate in subsequent years. Projections using the four-year and six-year
  high school to post-secondary transition rates indicate that the six-year high school to post-secondary
  transition rate will remain between 59 and 60 per cent over the next few years.
• Education continues to collaborate with Advanced Education, post-secondary institutions and industry
  associations to facilitate student learning opportunities in apprenticeship, skilled trades and vocational
  education.

Chart
Chart 1.b:
      1.b: High
           High School
                School to
                        to Post-Secondary
                           Post-Secondary Transition
                                          Transition Rate
                                                     Rate
Within
Within Six
       Six Years
           Years of
                 of Entering
                    Entering Grade
                             Grade 10
                                   10

100%




         60.0%     60.3%     59.7%      60.1%     59.9%     60.0%




  0%
         2019-20   2020-21   2021-22    2022-23   2023-24   Target


Source:
Source: Alberta
        Alberta Education
                Education




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                             25
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Table 1.b: Percentages of Students Who Enrol in Post-Secondary
Programs Within Four and Six Years of Entering Grade 10
    Grade 10 Year         4-Year Rate and Year                6-Year Rate and Year
       2014-15                                                60.0%            2019-20
       2015-16                                                60.3%            2020-21
       2016-17            40.5%            2019-20            59.7%            2021-22
       2017-18            41.2%            2020-21            60.1%            2022-23
       2018-19            40.2%            2021-22            59.9%            2023-24
       2019-20            41.1%            2022-23
       2020-21            42.5%            2023-24
Source: Alberta Education

Notes:
•     Student enrolment in an Alberta post-secondary program includes attending a publicly funded post-secondary institution
      or registering in an Alberta apprenticeship program.
•     The most recent results are for 2023-24 as the data for this measure lag a year (the school year concludes after the
      government fiscal year ends).
•     The high school to post-secondary transition rates include adjustments for attrition using estimates from Statistics Canada
      and for students who attend post-secondary outside the province using estimates from the Ministry of Advanced Education.
•     See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results relative to targets.
•     See Endnote C, High School to Post-Secondary Transition Rates, page 87.




26                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                             RESULTS ANALYSIS



Performance Measure 1.c:
       Overall Achievement Test Results in Grade 9 Language Arts and Mathematics
Rationale
• Overall student achievement of standards on provincial achievement tests is a sound indicator of whether
  elementary and junior high students are achieving high standards in Language Arts and in Mathematics,
  an important outcome for Alberta’s Kindergarten to Grade 12 education system.

Target
• The targets for the overall Grade 9 Language Arts and the overall Mathematics results could not be assessed
  as current year data is not available.

Discussion
• 2024-25 provincial achievement test results will be available in October 2025 and published in the Annual
  Report Update.
• In 2023-24, 69.6 per cent of students achieved the acceptable standard in overall Grade 9 Language
  Arts, while 52.7 per cent of students achieved the acceptable standard in overall Grade 9 Mathematics
  (Chart 1.c).
• Overall results in Grade 9 Language Arts are calculated as an average of the results in the following
  four subjects weighted by the number of individuals that were enrolled:
   - English Language Arts 9
   - French Language Arts 9
   - Français 9
   - English Language Arts 9 (Knowledge and Employability)
• Overall results in Grade 9 Mathematics are calculated as an average of the results in the following two
  subjects weighted by the number of individuals that were enrolled:
   - Mathematics 9
   - Mathematics 9 (Knowledge and Employability)




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                        27
RESULTS ANALYSIS

Overall Percentages of Students Who Achieved Standards
Chart
on    1.c:9Overall
   Grade           Percentages
           Provincial          of Students
                      Achievement  Tests in Who Achieved
                                            Language ArtsStandards on Grade 9
Provincial Achievement
and Mathematics         Tests in Language  Arts and Mathematics
100%


                                69.4%      71.3%        69.6%               72.0%
                                                                Data not
           Data not available                                   available
                                53.1%      54.3%     52.7%                  55.3%
                                                                Data not
           Data not available
                                                                available




    0%
         2019-20    2020-21     2021-22   2022-23   2023-24     2024-25     Target

                                          Language Arts
                                          Mathematics

Source: Alberta Education


Notes:
•    2024-25 provincial achievement test results will be available in October 2025 and published in the Annual Report Update.
•    Results for the 2019-20 and 2020-21 school years are not available as participation in the provincial achievement tests was
     impacted by COVID-19 related learning disruptions. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•    Participation in provincial achievement tests was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019-20, 2020-21 and
     2021-22.
•    Student data most likely affected by the provincial achievement tests security breach in 2021-22 has been excluded from the
     2021-22 overall results. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•    Until the Grade 6 curriculum renewals are complete and provincial achievement tests resume for students, the ministry will
     publish Grade 9 Language Arts and Mathematics results as an indicator of student achievement related to the programs of
     study.
•    The percentages of students who achieved the acceptable standard include the students who achieved the standard of
     excellence.
•    Overall Grade 9 Language Arts results are a weighted average based on total enrolment in Grade 9 Language Arts courses.
•    Overall Grade 9 Mathematics results are a weighted average based on total enrolment in Grade 9 Mathematics courses.
•    See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results relative to targets, and results over time.
•    See Endnote C, provincial achievement tests, pages 88-89.




28                                                                                           Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                             RESULTS ANALYSIS


Table 1.c: Participation Rates for Grade 9 Language Arts and Mathematics Achievement Tests
(in percentages)

    Subject                                  2019-20        2020-21        2021-22       2022-23        2023-24       2024-25

    Language Arts

    Grade 9

    English Language Arts                                                     82            84             83

    English Language Arts
                                                                              75            70             72         Data not
    (Knowledge and Employability)              Data not available
                                                                                                                      available
    French Language Arts                                                      93            94             94

    Français                                                                  93            94             94

    Overall Grade 9 Language Arts

                                                                                                                      Data not
                                               Data not available            82.3          84.2           83.3
                                                                                                                      available

    Mathematics

    Grade 9

    Mathematics                                                               83            84             85
                                                                                                                      Data not
    Mathematics                                Data not available
                                                                              82            82             81         available
    (Knowledge and Employability)

    Overall Grade 9 Mathematics

                                                                                                                      Data not
                                               Data not available            83.0          83.9           84.9
                                                                                                                      available

Source: Alberta Education


Notes:
•     2024-25 provincial achievement test participation rates will be available in October 2025 and published in the Annual
      Report Update.
•     Results for the 2019-20 and 2020-21 school years are not available as participation in the provincial achievement tests was
      affected by COVID-19 related learning disruptions. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     Participation in provincial achievement tests was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019-20, 2020-21 and
      2021-22.
•     Student data most likely impacted by the provincial achievement test security breach in 2021-22 has been excluded from
      the 2021-22 overall results. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     The percentages of students who achieved the acceptable standard include the students who achieved the standard
      ofexcellence.
•     Knowledge and Employability courses are designed for students who meet enrolment criteria and learn best through
      experiences that integrate essential and employability skills in occupational contexts.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                             29
RESULTS ANALYSIS



Performance Measure 1.c:
       Language Arts and Mathematics Achievement Test Results by Individual
       Subject for Students in Grades 9
Rationale
• Student results on provincial achievement tests in each grade and subject provide detailed information
  on whether junior high students are achieving high standards in Language Arts and in Mathematics, an
  important outcome for Alberta’s Kindergarten to Grade 12 education system.

Target
• Targets for individual Language Arts and Mathematics subject results were not set in the 2024-27 business plan.

Discussion
• 2024-25 provincial achievement test results will be available in October 2025 and published in the Annual
  Report Update.


Table 1.c.1: Percentages of Students in Grade 9 Who Achieved the Acceptable Standard in
Provincial Achievement Tests in Language Arts (in percentages)

    Subject                     2019-20      2020-21     2021-22     2022-23     Previous      2023-24     2024-25      Target
                                                                                  3-year                               2024-25
                                                                                 average

    Language Arts

    Grade 9

    English Language Arts                                  69.6        71.4         n/a         69.5

    English Language Arts
    (Knowledge and                                         50.5        50.2         n/a         49.6      Data not
    Employability)               Data not available
                                                                                                          available
    French Language Arts                                   73.5        76.1         n/a         76.6

    Français                                               80.0        81.6         n/a         83.1

    Overall Grade 9
    Language Arts

                                                                                                          Data not
                                 Data not available        69.4        71.3         n/a         69.6                    72.0
                                                                                                          available
Source: Alberta Education

Notes:
•     2024-25 provincial achievement test results will be available in October 2025 and published in the Annual Report Update.
•     Results for the 2019-20 and 2020-21 school years are not available as participation in the provincial achievement tests was
      affected by COVID-19 related learning disruptions. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     Participation in provincial achievement tests was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22.
•     The 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23 school years are not included in the previous three-year average, and this is denoted by n/a.
      Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     Student data most likely impacted by the provincial achievement test security breach in 2021-22 has been excluded from the
      2021-22 overall results. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     The percentages of students who achieved the acceptable standard include the students who achieved the standard of excellence.
•     Knowledge and Employability courses are designed for students who meet enrolment criteria and learn best through experiences
      that integrate essential and employability skills in occupational contexts.
•     See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results relative to targets, and results over time.
•     See Endnote C, provincial achievement tests, pages 88-89.

30                                                                                          Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                  RESULTS ANALYSIS


Table 1.c.2: Percentages of Students in Grade 9 Who Achieved the Acceptable Standard in
Provincial achievement tests in Mathematics (in percentages)

    Subject                      2019-20      2020-21      2021-22      2022-23     Previous     2023-24         2024-25    Target
                                                                                     3-year                                2024-25
                                                                                    average

    Mathematics

    Grade 9

    Mathematics                                              53.0        54.4          n/a         52.7

    Mathematics                                                                                              Data not
                                  Data not available
    (Knowledge                                               55.3        52.7          n/a         52.2      available
    and Employability)

    Overall Grade 9
    Mathematics

                                                                                                             Data not
                                  Data not available         53.1        54.3          n/a         52.7                     55.3
                                                                                                             available
Source: Alberta Education


Notes:
•     2024-25 provincial achievement test results will be available in October 2025 and published in the Annual Report Update.
•     Results for the 2019-20 and 2020-21 school years are not available as participation in provincial achievement tests was
      impacted by COVID-19 related learning disruptions. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     Participation in the provincial achievement tests was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019-20, 2020-21 and
      2021-22.
•     The 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22 school years are not included in the previous three-year average and this is denoted by
      n/a. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     Student data most likely impacted by the provincial achievement test security breach in 2021-22 has been excluded from
      the 2021-22 overall results. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     The percentages of students who achieved the acceptable standard include the students who achieved the standard of
      excellence.
•     Knowledge and Employability courses are designed for students who meet enrolment criteria and learn best through
      experiences that integrate essential and employability skills in occupational contexts.
•     See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results relative to targets, and results over time.
•     See Endnote C, provincial achievement tests, pages 88-89.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                31
RESULTS ANALYSIS



Supplementary Information
      Overall Diploma Examination Results in Language Arts and Mathematics
Rationale
• Student results on diploma examinations are a solid indicator of whether high school students are
  achieving high standards in Language Arts and Mathematics.
• The Language Arts diploma examination measure is an aggregate of four Language Arts courses.
  This reflects a focus on fundamental reading and writing skills, an important outcome for Alberta’s
  Kindergarten to Grade 12 education system.
• The Mathematics diploma examination measure is an aggregate of two courses. This measure reflects a
  focus on the development of mathematical reasoning and problem-solving skills, which are important
  outcomes for Alberta’s Kindergarten to Grade 12 education system.

Discussion
• 2024-25 diploma examination results will be available in October 2025 and published in the Annual
  Report Update.
• The Language Arts measure is an average of the results in the following four subjects, weighted by the total
  number of individuals who wrote each of the exams:
     - English Language Arts 30-1
     - English Language Arts 30-2
     - French Language Arts 30-1
     - Français 30-1

• The Mathematics measure is an average of the results in the following two subjects, weighted by the total
  number of individuals that wrote each of the exams:
     - Mathematics 30-1
     - Mathematics 30-2




32                                                                           Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS


Overall Percentages of Students Who Achieved the Acceptable
Overall Percentages of Students Who Achieved Standards on
Standards on Diploma Examinations in Language Arts and
Diploma Examinations in Language Arts and Mathematics
Mathematics
100%
                                         84.8%      85.1%    Data not
                               79.8%                         available
          Data not available
                                                             Data not
          Data not available              70.9%    73.5%     available
                               62.6%




    0%
         2019-20   2020-21     2021-22   2022-23   2023-24    2024-25
                                         Language Arts
                                         Mathematics

Source: Alberta Education

Notes:
•   The percentages of students who achieved the acceptable standard include the students who achieved the standard of
    excellence.
•   Overall results for Language Arts are a weighted average of results for the four Language Arts subjects.
•   Overall results for Mathematics are a weighted average of results for the two Mathematics subjects.
•   Participation in diploma examinations was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22.
    Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•   See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results over time.
•   See Endnote C, Diploma Examinations, pages 89-90.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                       33
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Percentages of Students Who Achieved the Acceptable Standard in Diploma Examinations in
Language Arts (in percentages)

    Subject                            2019-20      2020-21       2021-22       2022-23      Previous       2023-24     2024-25
                                                                                              3-year
                                                                                             average

    Language Arts

    Grade 9

    English Language Arts 30-1                                     78.8           83.7          n/a              84.2

    English Language Arts 30-2                                     80.8           86.2          n/a              85.7   Data not
                                        Data not available
    French Language Arts 30-1                                      91.9           93.1          n/a              95.3   available

    Français 30-1                                                  98.8           99.2          n/a              99.4

    Overall Language Arts

                                                                                                                        Data not
                                        Data not available         79.8           84.8          n/a              85.1
                                                                                                                        available
Source: Alberta Education

Notes:
•     The percentages of students who achieved the acceptable standard include the students who achieved the standard of
      excellence.
•     Overall results for Language Arts are a weighted average of results for the four Language Arts subjects.
•     Participation in diploma examinations was impacted by the wildfires in 2022-23, and by the COVID-19 pandemic in
      2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results relative to targets, and results over time.
•     See Endnote C, Diploma Examinations, pages 89-90.




34                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                              RESULTS ANALYSIS


Percentage of Students Who Achieved the Acceptable Standard in Diploma Examinations in
Mathematics (in percentages)

    Subject                           2019-20      2020-21      2021-22         2022-23    Previous         2023-24       2024-25
                                                                                            3-year
                                                                                           average

    Mathematics



                                                                                                                          Data not
    Mathematics 30-1                                              63.6           70.8         n/a            75.4
                                                                                                                          available
                                       Data not available
                                                                                                                          Data not
    Mathematics 30-2                                              61.5           71.1         n/a            70.9
                                                                                                                          available

    Overall Mathematics

                                                                                                                          Data not
                                       Data not available         62.6           70.9         n/a            73.5
                                                                                                                          available
Source: Alberta Education

Notes:
•     The percentages of students who achieved the acceptable standard include the students who achieved the standard of
      excellence.
•     Overall results for Mathematics are a weighted average of results for the two Mathematics subjects.
•     Participation in diploma examinations was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22.
      Caution should be exercised when interpreting the results over time.
•     See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results over time.
•     See Endnote C, Diploma Examinations, pages 89-90.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                              35
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Outcome Two: First Nations, Métis and Inuit students in Alberta are successful
Alberta Education collaborates with education partners to improve education outcomes for First Nations,
Métis and Inuit students by incorporating Indigenous histories, cultures, languages and perspectives in
curriculum, promoting foundational knowledge for teachers and school leaders and fostering knowledge and
understanding of First Nations, Métis and Inuit cultures among Alberta’s Kindergarten to Grade 12 students.
First Nations, Métis and Inuit student success was achieved by:
• strengthening education programs, policies and initiatives for First Nations, Métis and Inuit students;
• supporting partners to gather, analyze and share Indigenous education data to monitor student success; and
• enhancing relationship-building between Indigenous communities and schools through community-based
  supports.

Key Objectives
2.1   Strengthen education programs, policies and initiatives for First Nations, Métis and Inuit students.

In the 2024-25 school year, Alberta Education allocated $88.3 million through the First Nation, Métis and
Inuit Grant to assist school authorities in delivering system, program and instructional supports that improve
education outcomes for First Nations, Métis and Inuit students and in supporting the implementation of the
Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s recommendations.
Collaboration with Education and Ministry Partners
Alberta Education continues to collaborate with education partners to help improve their ability to deliver
programming and broaden their understanding of the overall education system to support Indigenous learners.
Alberta Education continued to support the Maskwacîs Education Schools Commission (MESC) and Kee Tas
Kee Now Tribal Council Education Authority (KTCEA) through existing framework agreements that outline
a shared desire to develop strategies to strengthen the delivery of educational services with the express interest
of improving the educational outcomes of students living and attending school on reserve. In 2024-25, almost
$3.9 million in Enhancement Funding was provided to MESC and $1.8 million in Enhancement Funding was
provided to KTCEA.
Protocol agreements establish a framework between the Government of Alberta and First Nation partners to
ensure a productive working relationship based on areas of mutual interest and cooperation. The agreements
are community driven and reflect the unique needs of individual First Nations. Education sub-tables under
these agreements have included work on culturally appropriate learning and teaching resources, land-based
learning and language revitalization and retention. To support the implementation of protocol agreements,
$250,000 in funding was provided to the Blackfoot Confederacy and $250,000 was provided to the Stoney
Nakoda Tsuut’ina Tribal Council (G4). Alberta Education also worked closely with Advanced Education and
Indigenous Relations to provide $250,000 in funding in 2024-25 to develop the first ever Alberta Education
and Confederacy of Treaty 6 Education Work Plan.
In 2024-25, Alberta Education established an internal ministry working group to identify pragmatic
approaches to address the five educational recommendations of the 113 Pathways to Justice report. The working
group is guided by the Alberta Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls Roadmap and seeks to
identify and develop evidence-based deliverables to support the government’s response to addressing violence
and increasing the safety and economic security of Indigenous women, girls and two-spirit plus (2S+) people.




36                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                              RESULTS ANALYSIS


Specialized Learning Supports for First Nations Students
Alberta Education continues to address the needs of First Nations students through the Specialized Learning
Supports for First Nations Grant program. The grant facilitates the provision of customized learning supports
while building the capacity of First Nations schools to deliver those supports in a culturally competent and
safe way.
In 2024-25, $3.4 million in grant funding was provided to 29 First Nations and First Nations education
authorities to enable students registered with First Nations schools to receive support for social-emotional
learning and mental health services.

2.2   Support partners to gather, analyze and share Indigenous education data to monitor student
      success.

Alberta Education works with education partners, including Indigenous communities and school authorities,
to collect student data to measure student progress and success in the education system. The department
provides annual analytics and reports to provincial school authorities to measure how schools and school
authorities are performing, and to provide consistent, reliable data for planning and policy decisions. The
department develops data-sharing agreements between Indigenous communities, organizations and the
Government of Alberta to document how data will be collected, analyzed and used.
In 2024-25, Alberta Education received the research report for the Advancing Educational Equity in Alberta
Classrooms, Schools and Structures research project. This project, supported by the department through
funding contribution and in-kind support, investigated the systemic factors that contribute to the academic
streaming of Indigenous students into academic pathways that may limit post-secondary opportunities.
Recommendations will be reviewed and considered by the department for further action and implementation.

2.3   Enhance relationship-building between Indigenous communities and schools through
      community-based supports.

Alberta Education collaborates with Indigenous communities, partners and education stakeholders to enhance
education outcomes for First Nations, Métis and Inuit students by implementing initiatives that support
reconciliation, recognizing that Indigenous-led solutions result in meaningful change. Establishing strong
relationships with Alberta’s Indigenous communities can help schools provide Indigenous students with the
supports needed to be successful in school and beyond.

Bridging Classrooms to Communities Grant
The Bridging Classrooms to Communities Grant pilot program helps Indigenous communities and school
authorities build stronger relationships to support student success and reconciliation by creating welcoming
environments, demonstrating cultural awareness and providing system supports to encourage Indigenous
students’ success in and out of the classroom. In 2024-25, $3.4 million was distributed to 12 grant recipients
to help strengthen student connections and foster relationships with Indigenous communities. Grant funding
can be used for out-of-school programming, such as homework clubs, student drop-in programs, social clubs,
nutrition programs, sports programs and culture and language programs to help students develop healthy
relationships in their communities and provide a network of social and academic supports for students out-
of-school. Education continued to conduct bi-annual check-in meetings with grant recipients throughout
2024-25; the majority reported positive results from initial activities. The final report is expected by March
31, 2027.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                         37
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Community Reconciliation Grant
The Community Reconciliation Grant pilot program was launched in October 2023 to promote community
healing and reconciliation by fostering engagement between Indigenous organizations and schools to support
students through a holistic approach. Through an investment of $700,000, the program supports Indigenous
organizations to provide services and supports to children and youth from ages 3 to 19. The services and
supports include providing family support and community development, social and leadership opportunities
and cultural learning. Eight Indigenous organizations were awarded a conditional grant of up to $100,000
each to support their respective reconciliation-related project or initiative. The department remains steadfast
in its commitment to truth and reconciliation and results from this pilot will be used to inform future
initiatives and programming.

Strengthening Relationships Pilot Grant
The Strengthening Relationships Pilot Grant was a one-time initiative launched in March 2023 to foster
meaningful relationships between provincial schools and Indigenous communities. The program aimed
to create welcoming, respectful and culturally responsive learning environments that enhance Indigenous
student success. It focused on four key areas: Relational Supports and Community Development, Restorative
Practices, Social and Recreational Activities and Culture and Language.

Six First Nations and one Métis Settlement each received $140,000, totaling $980,000 in funding. The pilot
concluded on August 31, 2024. Reported outcomes included:

     • Increased engagement of teachers and school leaders with Indigenous communities;
     • Enhanced cultural awareness and integration in educational practices;
     • Improved student attendance and learning engagement;
     • Greater involvement of parents, Elders and community members in schools; and
     • Learning environments more reflective of Indigenous histories, languages and worldviews.
Results and learnings from the Strengthening Relationships Pilot Grant program are being used to inform
current and future ministry initiatives that support truth and reconciliation and improve Indigenous student
outcomes.

United for Literacy
In 2024-25, Alberta Education provided $800,000 to United for Literacy to plan, coordinate and deliver
seven literacy programs for First Nations, Métis and Inuit students in Alberta, including summer literacy
programs, rural literacy programs and urban literacy programs. Up to 21 summer literacy camps and 13
after school programs were held in 2024. United For Literacy is working on building relationships with new
communities and looking for opportunities for summer camp locations to convert to full-year programming.

Rupertsland Institute Grant
The Rupertsland Institute is an affiliate of the Métis Nation of Alberta. A grant of $500,000 per year supports
the Education and Training Strategy under the Métis Nation of Alberta – Government of Alberta Framework
Agreement until March 31, 2028. The grant enables the development of Métis-specific Kindergarten to
Grade 12 lesson plans, the creation of classroom resources and professional development to support Métis
foundational knowledge, and support for the implementation of the Teaching Quality Standard and raises
awareness among educators and system leaders across Alberta about the impact of academic streaming on
Indigenous learners.




38                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                           RESULTS ANALYSIS


This grant has resulted in:
    • more than 34,500 educator accessing Rupertsland Institute’s online educational supports;
    • almost 650 educators completing the Métis Foundational Knowledge Themes course;
    • over 20 school divisions participating in the Niya Michif (traditional Métis language) course;
    • a robust online platform featuring more than 55 lesson plans and more than 15 virtual field trips in
      both English and French; and
    • educators reporting increased confidence and competence in integrating Métis content into classroom
      instruction.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                        39
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Outcome Two Performance Measures

Performance Measure 2.a:
      High School Completion of Self-Identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit Students

Rationale
• High school completion of self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students is important for entry
  to the labour force and post-secondary programs. While most self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit
  students complete high school within three years of entering Grade 10, the five-year rate recognizes that it
  may take more time for some self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students to finish high school.
• Alberta’s high school completion rate of self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students includes
  students who earn a high school diploma or certificate of high school achievement and self-identified First
  Nations, Métis and Inuit students who enter an Alberta post-secondary institution or an apprenticeship
  program within five years of entering Grade 10. Another group comprises those who have earned credits in
  a minimum of five Grade 12 courses, including one Language Arts diploma examination course and three
  other diploma examination courses.

Target
• The target was not met.

Discussion
• In 2023-24, 69.7 per cent of self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students completed high school
  within five years of entering Grade 10.
• The high school completion rate of self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students has remained
  relatively stable over time, from 68.1 per cent in 2019-20 to 69.7 per cent in 2023-24 (Chart 2.a).
• Participation in diploma examinations was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Diploma examinations
  were cancelled in April and June 2020 and participation was optional during the 2020-21 school year.
  During this period, students who did not write diploma examinations received an exemption and their
  official mark was based solely on their school-awarded mark. In 2021-22, the January administration of
  diploma examinations was cancelled to support students affected by learning disruptions and the weighting
  of diploma examinations was temporarily lowered from 30 per cent to 10 per cent. These changes to the
  administration and weighting of diploma examinations may have affected the high school completion rates
  and thus caution should be exercised when interpreting the trend over time.
• The three-year high school completion rate is highly correlated with the five-year rate, as most students in
  the five-year rate complete high school in three years. For the cohort that entered Grade 10 in 2019-20,
  57.0 per cent of students completed high school within three years while 69.7 per cent completed high
  school within five years (Table 2.a). This makes the three-year rate a reliable predictor of the five-year rate
  in subsequent years. Projections indicate the five-year rate is likely to fluctuate over the next few years.
• Additionally, some students who do not complete high school in the Kindergarten to Grade 12 education
  system do so as young adults in the adult learning system. In 2024, 88.6 per cent of Indigenous Albertans
  aged 25 to 34 reported they had completed high school.




40                                                                              Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                 RESULTS ANALYSIS


Chart
Chart2.a:
       2.a:High
           HighSchool
                SchoolCompletion
                       CompletionRate
                                    Rateof
                                         ofSelf-identified
                                            Self-identified First Nations,
First
MétisNations, Métis
      and Inuit     and Inuit
                Students      Students
                         Within        Within
                                 Five Years of Five Years
                                               Entering    of 10
                                                         Grade
Entering Grade 10
100%



                                71.3%      69.4%      69.7%      71.5%
           68.1%      68.0%




    0%
          2019-20    2020-21    2021-22   2022-23    2023-24     Target

 Source: Alberta Education
Source: Alberta Education

Notes:
•     Results for this measure lag a year, as the school year concludes after the government fiscal year ends.
•     The target for 2023-24 was set in February 2024 based on 2021-22 data.
•     Included in the calculation of high school completion rates is an estimated adjustment for attrition
      (i.e., students moving out of province) using Statistics Canada estimates of out-migration.
•     See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results relative to targets.
•     See Endnote C, High School Completion Rates, page 87.


Table 2.a: Percentages of First Nations, Métis and Inuit Students
Who Completed High School Within Three and Five Years of
Entering Grade 10
    Grade 10 Year          3-Year Rate and Year                5-Year Rate and Year
       2015-16                                                 68.1%           2019-20
       2016-17                                                 68.0%           2020-21
       2017-18             62.0%           2019-20             71.3%           2021-22
       2018-19             59.5%           2020-21             69.4%           2022-23
       2019-20             57.0%           2021-22             69.7%           2023-24
       2020-21             58.6%           2022-23
       2021-22             59.8%           2023-24
Source: Alberta Education




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                          41
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Supplementary Information
     Annual Dropout Rate of Self-Identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit Students

Rationale
• The student dropout rate is an indicator of how well the needs of self-identified First Nations, Métis and
  Inuit students at risk of not completing high school are being addressed by the Kindergarten to Grade 12
  education system.

Discussion
• The student dropout rate is considered a leading indicator for the high school completion rate.
• Enrolment data indicates that 5.2 per cent of self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students aged
  14–18 dropped out of school in 2023-24.
• The dropout rate for self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students has remained stable over time.
• The dropout rate for self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students is approximately twice the rate
  for students overall, which is 2.4 per cent for the same period.
• The ministry continues to implement strategies focused on improving First Nations, Métis and Inuit
  student, parent and community engagement in order to reduce drop out rates and encourage First Nations,
  Métis and Inuit students to complete high school.
• Dropping out of school may be a temporary interruption of a student’s education. Of the self-identified
  First Nations, Métis and Inuit students who dropped out in 2022-23, about 17 per cent resumed their
  education in 2023-24.
• Some self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students who do not complete high school in the
  Kindergarten to Grade 12 education system do so as young adults in the adult learning system.




42                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                           RESULTS ANALYSIS


Annual
 AnnualDropout
        DropoutRates
                  RatesofofSelf-Identified
                            Self-IdentifiedFirst
                                            FirstNations,
                                                  Nations,
Métis and Inuit Students Aged 14–18
 Métis and Inuit Students Aged 14-18

 20%




           5.0%      4.9%      5.1%       5.2%      5.2%




     0%
          2019-20   2020-21   2021-22    2022-23   2023-24

 Source:
Source:  AlbertaEducation
        Alberta  Education


 Notes:
 •    Self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students aged 14-18 who in the following year, are not enrolled in school
      (a Kindergarten to Grade 12 school, an Alberta post-secondary institution or apprenticeship program) and have not
      completed high school are included in the annual dropout rate. For example, self-identified First Nations, Métis and
      Inuit students aged 14-18 in 2022-23 were tracked for one year. Those who were not enrolled and had not completed are
      included in the 2023-24 dropout rate.
 •    See Endnote C, page 86, for more information on the calculation of self-identified First Nations, Métis, and Inuit Annual
      Dropout Rate.




 Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                            43
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Performance Measure 2.b:
      High School to Post-Secondary Transition Rate of Self-Identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit
      Students

Rationale
• Post-secondary education equips self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students with valuable skills
  and knowledge to increase their opportunities for success and full participation in society. Entering post-
  secondary and/or apprenticeship programs indicates that self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit high
  school students are prepared for further education and training.

Target
• The target was met.

Discussion
• In 2023-24, 37.1 per cent of Alberta’s self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit high school students
  made the transition to an Alberta post-secondary institution within six years of entering Grade 10.
• The six-year high school to post-secondary transition rate has remained stable over time (Chart 2.b).
• The difference between the four-year and six-year high school to post-secondary transition rates indicates
  that a substantial proportion of self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit students delay their entry to
  post-secondary programs after completing high school (Table 2.b).
• The six-year high school to post-secondary transition rate for self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit
  students is slightly more than half the six-year high school to post-secondary transition rate for all Alberta
  students (59.9 per cent).
• The four-year and six-year high school to post-secondary transition rates for self-identified First Nations,
  Métis and Inuit students are highly correlated for the same Grade 10 cohort and the four-year high school
  to post-secondary transition rate is thus a reliable predictor of the six-year high school to post-secondary
  transition rate in subsequent years. Projections indicate that the six-year high school to post-secondary
  transition rate will remain between 35 and 38 per cent over the next few years.
• Education continues to collaborate with Advanced Education, post-secondary institutions and industry
  associations to facilitate student learning opportunities in apprenticeship, skilled trades and vocational
  education.




44                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS


Chart 2.b: Self-Identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit High School to
Chart 2.b: Self-Identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit High School to
Post-Secondary Transition Rate Within Six Years of Entering Grade 10
Post-Secondary Transition Rate Within Six Years of Entering Grade 10
100%




           35.7%     37.7%      35.5%      36.8%      37.1%      35.8%




    0%
          2019-20   2020-21    2021-22    2022-23    2023-24     Target

 Source: Alberta Education
Source: Alberta Education


Table 2.b: Percentages of Self-Identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit
Students Who Enrol in Post-Secondary Programs Within Four and Six
Years of Entering Grade 10

    Grade 10 Year         4-Year Rate and Year                 6-Year Rate and Year
       2014-15                                                 35.7%           2019-20
       2015-16                                                 37.7%           2020-21
       2016-17            20.6%            2019-20             35.5%           2021-22
       2017-18            22.7%            2020-21             36.8%           2022-23
       2018-19            21.2%            2021-22             37.1%           2023-24
       2019-20            22.8%            2022-23
       2020-21            24.4%            2023-24
Source: Alberta Education


Notes:
•     Self-identified First Nations, Métis and Inuit student enrolment in an Alberta post-secondary program includes attending a
      publicly funded post-secondary institution or registering in an Alberta apprenticeship program.
•     The most recent results are for 2023-24, as the data for this measure lag a year (the school year concludes after the
      government fiscal year ends).
•     The high school to post-secondary transition rates include adjustments for attrition using estimates from Statistics Canada
      and for students who attend post-secondary outside the province using estimates from the Ministry of Advanced Education.
•     See Endnote B, page 84, for information on assessing results relative to targets.
•     See Endnote C, High School to Post-Secondary Transition Rates, page 87.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                         45
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Outcome Three: Alberta’s students have access to a variety of learning opportunities
to enhance competitiveness in the modern economy
Alberta’s government is working to ensure that students have access to practical, foundational learning
opportunities while helping to build a qualified, educated and engaged workforce to support Alberta’s
economic prosperity. Alberta Education provides students with innovative learning opportunities such
as enhanced career education programming, dual credit programs and collegiate schools to ensure diverse
pathways for students to access post-secondary education or enter their chosen field of work, enabling
them to lead successful and fulfilling lives.
Ensuring Alberta’s students have access to a variety of learning opportunities was achieved by:
• providing career education programming that enables students to explore and experience various
  occupations;
• exploring strategies to enhance awareness of career learning pathways that include the apprenticeship
  system for students interested in pursuing training in the skilled trades, in partnership with other
  ministries; and
• continuing to support collegiate school opportunities to create more pathways for students to post-
  secondary education and the workforce.

Key Objectives
3.1   Provide career education programming that enables students to explore and experience various
      occupations.

Career education programming enables students to have hands-on, experiential learning experiences that
can lead to rewarding careers. To ensure students are prepared to participate in Alberta’s economy, Alberta
Education supports students to explore educational pathways to post-secondary education, trade designation
and meaningful careers through career education programming.

Career Education Engagement
Alberta Education engaged education partners and teachers on the development of draft curriculum for future
Grades 7 to 10 courses in January and February 2025, including content on physical education and wellness,
career education, financial literacy and additional basic life skills and home maintenance. These partners also
provided input on the organization of content into courses to best support student success. Partners confirmed
that career education and financial literacy are important in junior and senior high school and noted that
additional time to consider the high school context is needed.
Based on this feedback, Alberta Education is moving forward with additional engagement on Grades 7 to
9 draft curriculum related to career education and financial literacy. Work is also underway to develop high
school curriculum for Career and Life Management, including content in career education, financial literacy,
basic life skills and home maintenance, to be released for engagement at a later date. Input from engagement
activities will build on existing career education options in Alberta.
In collaboration with Advanced Education, Alberta Education also established a Dual Credit Review Advisory
Group in June 2024 to review several components of Alberta’s dual credit programming. The advisory group
included representatives from school authorities across Alberta, Indigenous communities, industry, post-
secondary institutions and career organizations.




46                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS


The Dual Credit Review Advisory Group gathered input on Alberta’s current and future dual credit programs,
including:
• the dual credit funding model and programming;
• accessibility, transportation and equipment barriers;
• transferability between post-secondary institutions;
• the role of collegiate schools in dual credit delivery;
• course offerings and instructional models; and
• increasing access to off-campus education.

Engagement between June and August 2024 focused on funding, delivery of off-campus education,
sustainability of career education programs, career exploration and transition supports to help students succeed
after high school. The department received positive feedback on the benefits of dual credit programming and
the need to plan for sustainability and growth of the program. Key themes include:
• improving clarity in policy documents;
• enhancing opportunities through sustainable funding;
• stronger connections between schools and the workplace; and
• improving awareness and participation from students, post-secondary institutions and businesses of existing
  career education opportunities.

Input gathered will inform upcoming changes to career education programming.

Dual Credit Programming
Dual credit programming is designed to help students in Grades 10, 11 or 12 gain practical skills and
experiential, hands-on learning while earning credits toward their high school diploma or a post-secondary
diploma, degree or certificate (including a journeyperson certificate). School authorities have the flexibility to
develop and implement dual credit programming that offers meaningful learning experiences that are relevant
to their students.
In 2024-25, Alberta Education invested almost $4.4 million into dual credit funding. This funding supports
up to $50,000 for each Dual Credit Start-up Grant to support school authority start-up costs for new dual
credit programs and up to $100,000 for each Dual Credit Enhancement Grant to enhance existing dual credit
programs. New or enhanced dual credit opportunities include carpentry and welding apprenticeships and
training in agriculture, engineering and medical and health technologies. Enhancement grant funding can be
used to purchase new equipment or upgrade facilities to meet industry standards and better connect students
to today’s workforce. Seniors, Community and Social Services also contributed an additional $600,000 for
health care aide dual credit grants. Across the province, 60 school authorities received 79 grants (57 start-up
grants and 22 enhancement grants). As of August 2024, approximately 2,600 students participated in dual
credit programs offered in 166 schools. Student participation numbers for 2024-25 will be available in fall
2025.
School Shared Resource Integration Program
To increase student participation in off-campus programs and internships, Alberta Education worked in
collaboration with Advanced Education and Jobs, Economy and Trade to support CAREERS: The Next
Generation, a not-for-profit foundation that brings together industry, schools, government and communities to
support students by making the workplace an extension of the classroom. High school students enrolled in off-



Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                           47
RESULTS ANALYSIS


campus education programming gain hands-on experience through work placement opportunities. In turn,
teachers, school authorities and industry employers that work with students receive off-campus supports from
the program. Under this program model, student career coordinators are employed by the school authority
and supported by CAREERS.
Alberta Education continued to support CAREERS in delivering its School Shared Resource Integration
Program, providing $1.4 million in 2024-25. In July 2024, the project expanded to include francophone
regional authorities and independent (private) schools. CAREERS highlighted that program participation
increased from 33 school authorities in 2023-24 to 45 school authorities in 2024-25. Approximately 2,400
students participated in an internship from August 2023 to August 2024.

Promoting Career Education Teacher Training
Targeted professional learning opportunities for teachers and system leaders help promote and enhance
career education programming for students and ensure they can experience a range of career pathways. In
March 2025, Alberta Education provided an 18-month $500,000 grant to the College of Alberta School
Superintendents to provide leadership to the Alberta Professional Learning Consortium to develop and
deliver career education professional learning to teachers and increase their capacity to teach career education
programming. Professional learning opportunities and resources will be delivered in both English and French
through in-person and online sessions and modules.

3.2   Explore strategies to enhance the apprenticeship system for students interested in pursuing
      training in the skilled trades, in partnership with other ministries.

As Alberta’s economy continues to grow, the demand for skilled tradespeople is increasing and will continue
to rise over the next decade. Meeting the needs of industry and maximizing opportunities for Alberta students
means promoting and supporting trades education with all communities. Alberta Education continues to
collaborate with Advanced Education, post-secondary institutions and industry associations to facilitate
student learning opportunities in apprenticeship programs, skilled trades and vocational education.

Exploring Germany’s Career Education Model
In June 2024, the Minister of Education led a mission to Germany to meet with political representatives and
officials from the states of Hesse, Rhineland-Palatinate, Schleswig-Holstein and Berlin. The delegation visited
schools, vocational centres and industry sites to see first-hand how Germany’s approach to career education is
helping students find rewarding careers. The mission focused on informing the Alberta government’s efforts to
expand career education for students. It also reinforced a long-standing relationship between governments to
ensure students, teachers and administrators can benefit from continued cultural exchanges and ideas sharing.
Education partners who joined the minister included representatives from CAREERS: The Next Generation
Foundation as well as the chairs and a second representative from each of The Edmonton Catholic Separate
School Division, The Edmonton School Division, The Calgary School Division and The Canadian Rockies
School Division.
Apprenticeship Programs
The Registered Apprenticeship Program allows students to develop trade-specific skills while earning high
school credits and on-the-job training hours toward an apprenticeship. Apprenticeship training combines
technical training (i.e., formal instruction in a designated post-secondary institution or high school) and on-
the-job training at a place of employment.




48                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS


Alberta Education continued to partner with Alberta Agriculture and Irrigation in support of the Green
Certificate Program through a five-year agreement, valid from 2022 to 2027, which allocates $400,000
per year to help facilitate increased Green Certificate Program accessibility, equity and student participation.
The program offers apprenticeship-style training to enable high school students to gain experience and
certification in Alberta’s agriculture industry while earning credit towards an Alberta High School Diploma
or a Certificate of High School Achievement. As of June 2024, about 996 students have participated in the
program, a 15 per cent increase over the previous school year. Student participation numbers for 2024-25
will be available in fall 2025.

3.3   Continue to support in-school opportunities to create more pathways for students to post-		
      secondary education and the workforce.

Collegiate schools provide students with opportunities to develop in-demand skills, equipping students
with technical experience, knowledge and critical-thinking skills. Increasing collegiate school opportunities
ensures a variety of career pathways for students to enter post-secondary education or the workforce. Alberta
Education’s commitment to expand collegiate programming across the province will connect more students to
rewarding career pathways while giving them the skills and abilities needed to be successful after high school
graduation.
Collegiate schools are operated by school authorities in partnership with the province’s post-secondary
institutions and industry partners. Through these partnerships, students receive enhanced career education
as they are connected to apprenticeship programming, allowing them to experience off-campus education
opportunities at post-secondary institutions and gain post-secondary credits while in high school.
Alberta Education continued to expand access to collegiate programs through an investment of $23.7
million in 2024-25 to support the start-up and expansion costs for collegiate schools. Through this funding,
seven new collegiate school programs began operations during the 2024-25 school year, increasing the total
number of collegiate schools operating in the province to 12. More than 30 unique collegiate pathways are
now available to students, including programming in science, aviation, technology, engineering, agriculture,
business, information communications and trades.
In November 2024, Education made several improvements to streamline the collegiate school application
process, including updating policy to require a partnership between collegiate schools, post-secondary
institutions and industry partners, establishing different collegiate structures, combining a multi-stage
application process into a single application, establishing clear parameters for school funding allocation and
introducing mandatory reporting requirements. Improvements will help reduce duplication of effort and
increase flexibility in collegiate requirements to support diverse programming.
The updated application process was implemented for the 2024-25 collegiate intake period. Department staff
continued to support collegiate school applicants and work with previously approved applicants to support
programs as they commenced operations.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                              49
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Outcome Three Performance Measures

Performance Measure 3.a:
      Career Education Opportunities for Students

Rationale
• Giving students opportunities to explore different careers helps them make better choices for their future.
  With strong career planning, students are more ready to join the workforce or continue their education
  after high school.

Target
• The target was met, as the current result is not significantly different from the target value.

Discussion
• Overall survey results in 2024-25 indicate that 71.5 per cent of high school students, parents, teachers
  and school board trustees were satisfied with students’ opportunities to learn career education at school
  (Chart 3.a).
• Results overall have decreased over time but have remained stable compared to the previous year.
• Student and parent satisfaction have been stable over time for all four related survey questions.
• Teacher satisfaction has decreased over time for all four related survey questions. The survey of teachers was
  conducted online in 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24, and 2024-25, whereas previously it was administered by
  telephone. This change in methodology may have affected the results. Caution should be exercised when
  comparing results over time.
• School board trustees’ satisfaction that students in their jurisdiction can access academic counselling
  services in a timely manner at school when needed has been stable over time.

Chart 3.a: Satisfaction of students, parents, teachers and school board
 Chart 3.a: Satisfaction of students, parents, teachers and school board
trustees with career education opportunities for students
 trustees with career education opportunities for students

100%


          75.3%
                     72.4%    71.3%     69.3%     71.5%     72.0%




     0%
          2020-21   2021-22   2022-23   2023-24   2024-25   Target


Source:
Source:Alberta
        AlbertaEducation
               Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.: 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025




50                                                                                     Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                  RESULTS ANALYSIS


Table 3.a: Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                           2020-21            2021-22            2022-23            2023-24           2024-25
    High School Students                          83.9              83.3               85.4              85.4               86.0
    Parents (Grades 7 -12)                        63.6              67.2               62.1              58.8               63.7
    Teachers                                      67.9              55.3               53.3              53.3               52.4
    School Board Trustees                         85.7              83.7               84.4              79.7               83.9
    Overall Satisfaction                          75.3              72.4               71.3              69.3               71.5
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.: 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025

Notes:
•     For high school students, the percentage reported is the average of the following agreement levels:
      - agreement with opportunities to learn about careers at school,
      - agreement with experience at school contributing to their growth in developing clear career goals,
      - agreement that students get the help they need with planning for a career, and
      - agreement that students get the help they need with deciding what courses to take.
•     For parents (Grades 7 to 12), the percentage reported is the average of the following satisfaction/agreement levels:
      - agreement that school is contributing to their child’s ability to develop clear career goals,
      - satisfaction that their child can access career counselling services in a timely manner at school when needed,
      - satisfaction that their child can access academic counselling services in a timely manner at school when needed, and
      - satisfaction that school is contributing to their child’s ability to transition effectively from school to work (e.g., adapting
        to a work place), or from school to post-secondary studies.
•     For teachers, the percentage reported is the average of the following satisfaction levels:
      - satisfaction with the opportunities students at their school have to learn about careers,
      - satisfaction that students at their school can access career counselling services in a timely manner when needed,
      - satisfaction that students at their school can access academic counselling services in a timely manner when needed, and
      - satisfaction that their school is contributing to the development of students’ ability to transition effectively from school
        to work (e.g., adapting to a work place), or from school to post-secondary studies.
•     For school board trustees, the percentage reported is the average of the following satisfaction level:
      - satisfaction that children/students in their jurisdiction can access academic counselling services in a timely manner at
        school when needed.
•     The target for 2024-25 was set in February 2024 based on 2022-23 data.
•     The survey of teachers was conducted online from 2021-22 onwards, whereas previously it was administered by telephone,
      and this may have affected results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
•     Overall satisfaction is the average of agreement/satisfaction levels for each respondent group. See Endnote A, page 82, for
      information on calculating overall survey results.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                51
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Supplementary Information
     Employer Satisfaction With the Skills and Knowledge of Recent High School Graduates

Rationale
• In assessing the effectiveness of the Alberta education system, business and industry employers of recent
  high school graduates are able to provide important information about the skills and abilities of high school
  graduates.

Discussion
• Overall survey results in 2023-24 indicate that 83.6 per cent of business and industry employers were
  satisfied with the skills and quality of work of recent high school graduates from Alberta’s Kindergarten to
  Grade 12 education system.
• Overall survey results in 2024-25 indicate that 84.2 per cent of business and industry employers were
  satisfied with the skills and quality of work of recent high school graduates from Alberta’s Kindergarten to
  Grade 12 education system.
• Based on survey results from 2015-16 to 2024-25, employer satisfaction has been stable over time.
• The survey of business and industry employers resumed in 2021-22 after several postponements of the
  administration of the survey.

Overall Satisfaction of Employers With the Skills
Overall
and     Satisfaction
    Knowledge        of Employers
                of Recent         WithGraduates
                          High School   the Skills and Knowledge
of Recent High School Graduates
100%

         84.3%     84.0%     84.8%     83.6%      84.2%




  0%
        2015-16   2021-22   2022-23   2023-24    2024-25


Source:
Source:Alberta
        AlbertaEducation
               Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2016; Advanis Inc.: 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025




52                                                                                     Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                              RESULTS ANALYSIS


Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                          2015-16           2021-22           2022-23           2023-24           2024-25
    Business and Industry Employers             84.3              84.0              84.8              83.6              84.2
    Overall Satisfaction                        84.3              84.0              84.8              83.6              84.2
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2016; Advanis Inc.:2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025

Notes:
•     Percentages reported are the overall satisfaction levels from: “Thinking about the recent high school graduates from Alberta’s
      Early Childhood Services to Grade 12 education system you have working for your organization, please tell me how satisfied
      or dissatisfied you are overall with their skills and quality of work.”
•     In the 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24 and 2024-25 surveys, recent high school graduates were defined as those who graduated
      from an Alberta high school within the last four years; prior to the 2021-22 survey, recent high school graduates were
      defined as those who graduated from an Alberta high school within the last two years.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                            53
RESULTS ANALYSIS



Performance Measure 3.b:
      Broad Program of Studies

Rationale
• Access to complementary subjects such as Fine Arts, Physical Education, additional languages, and Career
  and Technology Studies is an indicator that students have the opportunity to receive a broad education.

Target
• The target was not met.

Discussion
• Overall survey results in 2024-25 indicate that 78.7 per cent of high school students, parents, teachers
  and school board trustees were satisfied with students’ opportunities to receive a broad program of studies
  (Chart 3.b).
• Results overall have decreased over time but have remained stable compared to the previous year.
• Student satisfaction with opportunities to learn about another language has decreased over time. In
  contrast, satisfaction with opportunities to participate in physical education has increased over time.
• Parent satisfaction with their children’s opportunity to learn about music and art, as well as opportunity
  to participate in physical education at school, has increased over time. However, satisfaction with their
  children’s opportunity to learn about health has decreased over time.
• Teacher satisfaction has decreased over time for all related survey questions except satisfaction with their
  students’ opportunities to learn about music and to participate in physical education, both of which have
  remained stable. The survey of teachers was conducted online in 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24, and 2024-
  25, whereas previously it was administered by telephone. This change in methodology may have affected
  the results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
• School board trustees’ satisfaction for all the related survey questions has been stable over time.


 Chart 3.b: Overall Satisfaction of High School Students, Parents,
Chart 3.b: Overall Satisfaction of High School Students, Parents,
 Teachers and School Board Trustees With the Opportunity of Students
Teachers and School Board Trustees With the Opportunity of Students
 to Receive
to  Receive aa Broad
               Broad Program
                     Program ofof Studies
                                  Studies
100%

          81.4%      80.7%    79.7%     78.9%                81.7%
                                                  78.7%




     0%
          2020-21   2021-22   2022-23   2023-24   2024-25    Target

Source: Alberta
Source: Alberta Education:
                Education: CCI
                           CCI Research
                               Research Inc.:
                                        Inc.: 2021;
                                              2021; Advanis
                                                    Advanis Inc.:
                                                            Inc.: 2022,
                                                                  2022, 2023,
                                                                        2023, 2024
                                                                              2024 and
                                                                                   and 2025
                                                                                       2025




54                                                                                       Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS



Table 3.b: Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                           2020-21           2021-22           2022-23           2023-24           2024-25
    High School Students                         86.2              84.0              83.6              84.8               85.1
    Parents (Early Childhood
                                                 79.5              81.3              80.2              79.7               80.8
    Services to Grade 12)
    Teachers                                     79.3              76.7              75.3              72.8               70.9
    School Board Trustees                        80.5              80.9              79.8              78.3               78.1
    Overall Satisfaction                         81.4              80.7              79.7              78.9               78.7
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.: 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025

Notes:
•     Percentages reported are averages of satisfaction levels with the variety of subjects available and that “you/your child/your
      students/students in your jurisdiction have opportunities to learn about: Music, Drama, Art, Computers, Health, another
      language” and with “opportunities to participate in Physical Education.”
•     In the parent survey, only parents of Grades 7 to 12 students were asked questions relating to “Drama” and
      “another language”.
•     The target for 2024-25 was set in February 2024 based on 2022-23 data.
•     The survey of teachers was conducted online from 2021-22 onwards, whereas previously it was administered by telephone,
      and this may have affected results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
•     Overall satisfaction is the average of satisfaction levels for each respondent group. See Endnote A, page 82, for information
      on calculating overall survey results.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                 55
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Supplementary Information
     Solid Grounding in Core Subjects

Rationale
• A grounding in the core subjects of Mathematics, Language Arts, Science and Social Studies is essential for
  a solid Kindergarten to Grade 12 education.

Discussion
• In 2024-25, 76.1 per cent of high school students, parents, teachers, school board trustees and the public
  were satisfied that students are receiving a solid grounding in core subjects.
• Results overall have decreased over time but have remained stable compared to the previous year.
• Students’ agreement that they are getting better at reading has increased over time.
• Parent and teacher agreement that curriculum focuses on what their child/student needs to learn in
  reading, writing, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies has decreased over time. The survey of
  teachers was conducted online in 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24, and 2024-25, whereas previously it was
  administered by telephone. This change in methodology may have affected the results. Caution should be
  exercised when comparing results over time.
• Public agreement that the curriculum focuses on what students need to learn in reading, writing, and
  Social Studies has decreased over time.


Overall Satisfaction of High School Students, Parents, Teachers, School
Overall  Trustees of
 BoardSatisfaction  and the
                     High    Public
                          School     With the
                                  Students,     Opportunity
                                            Parents,            of Students
                                                     Teachers, School         to Receive
                                                                      Board Members  and
the PublicGrounding
 a Solid  With the Opportunity
                      in CoreofSubjects
                                 Students to Receive a Solid Grounding in Core Subjects
(Mathematics, Language Arts, Science and Social Studies)

100%

         83.4%
                    79.0%               76.9%     76.1%
                              74.8%




   0%
        2020-21   2021-22    2022-23   2023-24    2024-25


Source:
 Source:Alberta
         AlbertaEducation:
                 Education:CCI
                            CCIResearch
                                ResearchInc.:
                                         Inc.:2021;
                                               2021;Advanis
                                                     AdvanisInc.:
                                                             Inc.:2022,
                                                                   2022,2023,
                                                                         2023,2024
                                                                               2024and
                                                                                    and2025
                                                                                        2025




56                                                                                       Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                              RESULTS ANALYSIS



Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                          2020-21           2021-22           2022-23           2023-24           2024-25
    High School Students                        90.2              91.0              91.8              92.2              91.2
    Parents (Early Childhood
                                                83.4              79.8              76.6              75.7              76.1
    Services to Grade 12)
    Teachers                                    86.6              80.4              72.0              71.8              65.7
    School Board Trustees                       83.5              80.8              73.6              82.0              79.5
    Public                                      73.5              63.0              60.0              62.6              68.0
    Overall Satisfaction                        83.4              79.0              74.8              76.9              76.1
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.: 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025
Notes:
•     For high school students, percentages reported are averages of agreement levels that “you are getting better at … reading,
      writing, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies.”
•     For parents, teachers, school board trustees and the public, percentages reported are averages of agreement levels that “the
      curriculum focuses on what children/students need to learn in reading, writing, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies.”
•     The survey of teachers was conducted online from 2021-22 onwards, whereas previously it was administered by telephone,
      and this may have affected results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results overtime.
•     Overall satisfaction is the average of agreement/satisfaction levels for each respondent group. See Endnote A, page 82, for
      information on calculating overall survey results.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                               57
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Outcome Four: Alberta’s K–12 education system and workforce are well-managed
Alberta Education oversees the administration of the Early Childhood Services to Grade 12 education system
and directs the education system through legislation, policy and provision of funds. Maintaining a well-
governed and well-managed Alberta education system was achieved by:
• working with school authorities on recruitment and retention strategies for teachers and other school staff
  in underserved areas;
• addressing classroom complexities through specialized learning supports and improved access to qualified
  professionals and educational assistants;
• promoting choice in education to enhance student learning;
• implementing school capital strategies to increase the number of classrooms in areas of greatest need; and
• continuing to create efficiencies within the education system by streamlining financial and governance
  practices.

Key Objectives
4.1   Work with school authorities on recruitment and retention strategies for teachers and other school
      staff in underserved areas.

Alberta Education continued to explore ways to support the recruitment and retention of teachers and
other school staff by implementing strategies such as certificate and bursary programs that recruit to targeted
subject areas and underserved regions, increasing professional development opportunities, improving supports
for francophone and French language teachers, providing supports for school bus drivers and engaging in
education partnerships.

Teacher Certificate and Bursary Programs
Alberta Education continued to support the growth and development of the teaching workforce through
teacher certificate and bursary programs.

Northern Student Teacher Bursary
The Northern Student Teacher Bursary provides bursaries to Bachelor of Education students who agree
to return to service as a teacher within a northern Alberta school authority. Program participants are also
potential candidates for northern jurisdictions looking to fill positions. Through the program, which is also
supported by a contribution from Jobs, Economy and Trade, students can receive up to $18,000 to cover
their post-secondary education expenses. In 2024-25, this bursary was awarded to 37 recipients.

Rural Practicum Bursary
The Rural Practicum Bursary helps rural school authorities recruit new teachers by helping education
practicum students explore employment opportunities in rural school authorities. The program helps reduce
costs for students who complete practicum studies in rural areas. The program provides $2,000 bursaries for
rural practicum placements and $4,000 to students who complete a final field experience placement in Fort
Chipewyan. In 2024-25, the Rural Practicum Bursary program awarded 83 bursaries for a total of $166,000.




58                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                           RESULTS ANALYSIS


Bridge to Teacher Certification
The Career and Technology Studies (CTS) Bridge to Teacher Certification Program provides an opportunity
for school authorities to recruit skilled individuals with qualifications aligned to the CTS Program of Study
clusters, alongside journeypersons, health-care professionals and information technologists. The program
authorizes certificated journeypersons, health-care professionals and information technologists to work as
teachers while pursuing a Bachelor of Education degree. Under the CTS bridging program of study, participants
who complete a full 36 credits in specified education courses are authorized to teach under a conditional Letter
of Authority until they graduate from a full Bachelor of Education degree program. Individuals graduating from
this four-year program will receive a Bachelor of Education, which permits them to teach with full scope within
Alberta’s schools.
In 2024-25, the department provided approximately $625,000 in funding to support 25 tradespeople to
qualify for a Letter of Authority while completing a university bridging program.

Professional Development Opportunities
Alberta Education continued to support the growth and development of the teaching workforce by providing
professional development opportunities. In 2024-25, Alberta Education:
• allocated a total of $90,000 to 90 individuals through the Math Bursary Program to support current and
  future teachers to enhance their knowledge, skills and confidence in teaching math;
• continued to support the growth of teacher capacity through Heritage Language Grants by providing
  $92,000 in grant funding to the International and Heritage Language Association and $174,000 in grant
  funding to the Southern Alberta Heritage Language Association; and
• approved five Alberta certificated teachers of international languages to take summer language courses at a
  recognized post-secondary institution outside of Canada, providing up to $4,200 each in funding through
  the International Language Teacher Bursary.
   - The bursary supports Kindergarten to Grade 12 French and international language teachers, language
     consultants and school administrators in improving their language proficiency, teaching skills and
     knowledge through an accredited education experience and helps Alberta Kindergarten to Grade 12
     school jurisdictions enhance their language teaching capacity.

Support for French Language Educators
Alberta Education remains committed to supporting the province’s growing francophone community
by delivering high-quality French-language education and other initiatives to help promote francophone
cultures. The Individual Teacher Bursary Program provides eligible teachers in Alberta up to $4,000 each year
for post-secondary courses (including master’s and doctoral programs), training and professional development
in French or related to French-language learning, education or pedagogy. The program is financed with federal
funding provided through the Canada-Alberta Agreement for Minority-Language Education and Second-
Language Instruction. In 2024-25, Alberta Education provided approximately $173,550 in Individual
Teacher Bursaries to 112 teachers.
Alberta Education led negotiations with the federal government to ratify the Canada-Alberta Agreement
for Minority-Language Education and Second-Language Instruction, securing over $99 million in federal
funding for Alberta over the next four years to support Early Childhood Services to Grade 12 and post-
secondary French-language education. Under the new protocol, additional funding will be provided for
minority-language and second-language teacher recruitment and retention and post-secondary minority-
language education.


Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                       59
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Strengthening Supports Through Working Groups
Alberta Education led two separate working groups aimed at addressing challenges and strengthening supports
for French language educators. Both projects were undertaken through federal funding provided for teacher
recruitment and retention initiatives under the Official Languages in Education Program.
A working group that focused on professional development for teaching in a minority-language context
finished its work in April 2024. Strategies for the successful integration of new teachers teaching in a minority
setting were shared with school authorities and continued collaboration was encouraged.
A working group on staff French-language proficiency assessment ended in May 2024. A focus group
comprised of teachers, school administrators, human resources staff and consultants from school authorities
across Alberta met in December 2024 to provide feedback on the draft Guide to Supporting the French
Language Proficiency of Teachers: Engaging in Career-Long Learning. The feedback collected will be used to
inform the final version of the guide, which will support school authorities in providing formative feedback
and comprehensive language development recommendations to teachers and support their continuous
growth.

Education Partnerships
Alberta Education continues to identify opportunities to enhance subject matter expertise in the teaching
workforce by collaborating with other jurisdictions, relevant institutions and organizations.

Educator Exchange Programs
Educator exchange programs help build the capacity of teachers and school leaders by providing them with
opportunities to work in new and different environments and hone a wider variety of skills. These educator
exchanges are implemented in collaboration with the Alberta Teachers’ Association through an annual grant
of $135,000. In 2024-25, the department continued to offer virtual educator exchange programs with
Australia, Germany, Mexico and Spain; as well as in-person exchanges with Australia, Iceland, Germany
and Spain, to enhance the knowledge and skills of Alberta teachers and school leaders. Alberta Education
also continues to offer education exchange programs through Alberta’s accredited international schools.

Special Language Advisors
Alberta Education collaborated with partner governments and agencies under agreements for the posting of
special language advisors to Alberta, who work to support language teaching and learning in the education
system. In 2024-25, agreements for special language advisors were in place with China, Germany, Japan,
Spain and Ukraine. Special language advisors support professional development opportunities for Alberta
educators in language and culture programs, and in bilingual programs. They also work to support educational
exchanges and school partnership opportunities. Alberta Education allocated $170,000 to support advisors in
2024-25.

Research Partnerships Program
The department continues to facilitate collaborative research between school authorities and post-secondary
institutions through the Research Partnerships Program by providing funding for research projects with
potential to impact Alberta’s Early Childhood Services to Grade 12 education system and improve learning
outcomes for students.
The 2024 call for proposals funded five research studies on various topics, including aligning generative AI,
ethics and teachers’ values; engaging diverse stakeholders to advance equity in education; student readiness
for the future; social-emotional wellness in campus programs; and impacts of equitable assessments and



60                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                           RESULTS ANALYSIS


reporting practices on high school students’ learning. Research teams provided quarterly research updates
and submitted research reports to Alberta Education and Alberta Research Network members through the
Research Partnerships Program Findings webinar series and an annual Alberta Research Network Symposium
held in November 2024. The webinars and symposiums bring together school authorities, universities and
educational partner organizations to network and share research and ideas.
In October 2024, the Research Partnerships Program amended its grant options for the 2025 call for
proposals to include two grant streams for a total of $250,000 to better meet the financial needs of research
teams and to fund a variety of studies. The Strategic Opportunity Grant stream offers funding for small- to
medium-scale studies with shorter timelines of up to two years while the Comprehensive Grant stream offers
funding for large-scale studies with longer timelines of up to three years.

College of Alberta School Superintendents
Alberta Education continues to support the College of Alberta School Superintendents (CASS) as a key
partner in Alberta’s education system. In January 2025, $591,040 in conditional grant funding was provided
to CASS to support deliverables aligned with the department’s priorities and mandate items through system
leadership.
Alberta Education also provides annual funding to CASS to support teachers and school leaders’ access to
professional learning opportunities through the Alberta Professional Learning Consortium. In 2024-25,
$4.34 million was provided to deliver professional learning sessions. Between February 2024 and January
2025, more than 107,000 educators attended approximately 3,100 sessions to support planning, instruction
and assessment practices for new curriculum implementation.

4.2    Address classroom complexities through specialized learning supports and improved access to
       qualified professionals and educational assistants.

Alberta Education supported school authorities in addressing classroom complexities during the 2024-25
school year by supporting diverse student demographics, providing low incidence supports and services,
improving testing and providing specialized assessments, expanding capacity and learner supports and
providing learning support funding.

Supporting Diverse Student Demographics
In 2024-25, Alberta Education provided $1 million to Seniors, Community and Social Services to support
the Wellness, Resiliency and Partnership 2.0: Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD) Coaching Partnership
Project to strengthen the capacity of school staff in supporting students with FASD. The program fosters
collaboration between school authorities and FASD networks and offers tools and coaching support to help
educators create inclusive learning environments that support and engage students with FASD.
Low Incidence Supports and Services Funding
In 2024-25, $5 million of targeted funding was provided to 69 school authorities through Low Incidence
Supports and Services funding to facilitate access to educational programming for students with low incidence
disabilities, including students who are blind or visually impaired, deaf or hard of hearing, deaf-blind and
those with complex communication needs. As part of low incidence supports and services, Alberta Education
provided four Travelling Low Vision Clinics, three in Edmonton and one in Red Deer. A Travelling Low
Vision Clinic was also held in Calgary for May 2025. Travelling Low Vision Clinics provide comprehensive
low vision assessments to support educational programming to students.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                       61
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Improving Testing and Providing Specialized Assessments
Alberta Education recognizes that children with complex needs face multiple, interconnected challenges that
significantly affect their well-being and functioning across various settings, including schools, homes and
communities.
The Enhancing Specialized Assessment Grant was provided to Mandel & Associates Ltd., a Calgary-based
group of psychologists specialized in provision of expert assessments in the areas of clinical psychology,
educational psychology, neuropsychology, rehabilitation psychology and vocational psychology to coordinate
the administration of specialized assessments from October 2022 to April 2024. Mandel & Associates Ltd.
worked with qualified professionals to schedule and complete specialized assessments requested by public,
separate, francophone and charter school authorities. In April 2024, a final report was provided to Alberta
Education indicating that the grant supported the assessments of 3,227 children across Alberta. Findings
from the final report were shared with partner ministries and are being used to inform future work to support
children with complex needs.

Expanding Capacity and Learner Support Grant
Alberta Education provided $5.3 million in funding to the Association of Independent Schools and Colleges
in Alberta to operate the Expanding Capacity and Learner Support Grant Program. This program strengthens
the capacity of independent (private) schools and independent (private) Early Childhood Service operators
to deliver targeted supports and services to students with specialized learning needs. This includes providing
a variety of support such as resources, consultation, professional learning, and direct service and assessments
when required, to inform the child or student’s education program. The program now includes providing
support for home education families. The association indicates that there has been a steady increase in
service usage.

Program Supports and Services Grants
Alberta Education continues to promote inclusive education where diversity and learner differences are
embraced, and equitable learning opportunities are available to all students. In the 2024-25 school year,
learning support funding includes:
• $596.2 million allocated to the Specialized Learning Supports Grant for school jurisdictions to provide
  a continuum of specialized supports and services to students in an inclusive learning environment;
• $116 million allocated to the English as an Additional Language Grant and Francisation Grant to support
  school authorities or francophone regional authorities with 95,737 children or students who require
  additional support in the English or French language; and
• $57.5 million allocated to the Refugee Student Grant to help school authorities provide additional
  language, social and educational supports to 11,137 refugee students.

Program Unit Funding
A total of $219.9 million in learning support funding will be allocated to Program Unit Funding (PUF)
in the 2024-25 school year, an increase of $17.7 million from the previous year. Alberta Education provides
educational supports through PUF to school authorities, including independent (private) Early Childhood
Services operators, to support children aged two years, eight months to six years who have severe disabilities or
delays requiring support beyond what is offered in regular Early Childhood Services programs. Providing early
intervention services to eligible children across the province will help ensure they have a successful transition
into their early elementary years.




62                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS


Alberta Education reviewed the PUF Grant to ensure the program parameters and funding mechanism are
addressing the educational needs of children with severe disabilities or delays and to strengthen alignment with
the Special Education Coding Criteria and Funding Manual for School Authorities. As a result of the review, two
enrolment count dates, December and February, were implemented during the 2024-25 school year to ensure
all eligible children were enrolled and funded through the program.

Classroom Complexity Grant
The Classroom Complexity Grant allocated $42.5 million in learning support funding for the 2024-25
school year. The grant is provided to school authorities to address classroom complexity by increasing
staff hours, providing training and hiring more frontline support staff and specialists, such as counsellors,
psychologists and interpreters.
Approximately $480,000 of this grant will be available for the Educational Assistant Internship Program
to support training for current and aspiring educational assistants. Created in 2023 in partnership with The
Edmonton School Division, the program helps address the provincial shortage of educational assistants by
providing flexible professional development and training programming to educational assistants. The program
fosters an educational assistant community of practice and provides on-site coaching, oversight and research.
Program participants can engage in on-the-job training and learn educational assistant theory and skills
while being employed, enabling participants without post-secondary training to join the educational assistant
workforce. 281 individuals have participated in the program to date, with 400 people participating in 2025-26.

4.3   Promote choice in education to enhance student learning.

Providing school choice contributes to the success of Alberta’s education system and offers parents the
opportunity to choose the educational path that best supports their child’s unique needs. The department
recognizes that public, separate, francophone, independent (private) and charter schools, as well as Early
Childhood Services programs and home education programs are integral to providing a variety of options for
students and parents.
Education system funding was increased to almost $9.3 billion in 2024-25, ensuring that the Kindergarten to
Grade 12 education system continued to support children and students to develop their knowledge and skills
and achieve learning outcomes.

Charter Schools
Alberta Education continues to expand options to provide choice in education through charter schools. In the
2024-25 school year, the ministry allocated approximately $162 million for operating funds. Charter schools
are autonomous, non-profit, publicly funded schools that offer provincial curriculum in an innovative or
enhanced way to improve student learning and contribute to educational choice.
In 2024-25, charter schools had the option to be funded through a new Specialized Learning Support Grant
or remain on the Severe Disabilities Grant. Alberta Education engaged with stakeholders in fall 2024 to explore
issuing charters on a continuing basis rather than operating on a term basis as presently described in legislation.

Independent (Private) Schools
School choice is also supported through independent (private) schools and independent (private) Early
Childhood Services operators. Independent (private) schools receive 70 per cent of the base instruction
funding provided to public schools and are not eligible for capital funding.
In 2024-25, Alberta Education provided $428.8 million to accredited funded independent (private) schools,
an increase of $35.1 million from the prior year, reflective of growing enrolment in these schools.



Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                           63
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Alberta Education also provided approximately $340,000 to the Association of Independent Schools and
Colleges in Alberta in 2024-25 to provide teacher evaluation and certification services to independent
(private) schools, independent (private) Early Childhood Services operators and Alberta accredited
international schools.

Home Education
Home education is a parent-directed approach to educating a student in Grades 1 to 12 at home or elsewhere
in which parents are responsible for making all education decisions. Parents choose curriculum resources and
methodology consistent with their family’s beliefs and the Home Education Regulation. There are two types
of home education programs in Alberta: supervised by a school authority, which is eligible for funding, and
not supervised by a school authority, which is not eligible for funding.
The Home Education Grant is provided to public, separate, francophone and accredited funded independent
(private) school authorities to support students in a home education program. Up to 50 per cent of the Home
Education Grant is provided to the parent/guardian as reimbursement for instructional materials and services
that support the instructional program at home. Parents in a supervised home education program can also use
their portion of parent funding to access online/distance education courses.
In 2024-25, Alberta Education continued to provide $1,802 per student through Home Education Grant
funding. There are currently over 21,500 students enrolled in home education programs in Alberta.

Home Education Kindergarten Pilot Program
The Home Education Kindergarten pilot program was created in the 2023-24 school year to expand
educational choices for parents and to assess the interest and feasibility of home education for Kindergarten-
aged children.
In the 2024-25 school year, the pilot allocated $1.8 million in funding to support up to 2,048 children,
allowing parents providing home education to their Kindergarten children to access funding through the
temporary grant program. A grant of $901 per child was allocated to supervising school authorities, including
public, separate, francophone and independent (private) school authorities. Up to $450.50 was designated for
parental reimbursement for instructional materials and resources.
Student Transportation
Student transportation is an integral part of Alberta’s education system. Under the Education Act and School
Transportation Regulation, school boards are required to provide transportation to their designated school
for their resident students who meet the distance criteria. School authorities receive transportation funding
to support the safe transportation of more than 335,000 Kindergarten to Grade 12 students across
the province each school day.
In the 2024-25 fiscal year, Alberta Education provided $439.7 million in transportation funding to school
jurisdictions and $25.9 million to accredited independent (private) schools and independent (private) Early
Childhood Services operators.
Alberta Education also offered transportation support to school authorities through the Fuel Price
Contingency Program, helping to offset the impact of fuel price increases for school authorities by keeping
fuel prices at a base rate of $1.25 per litre. In 2024-25, more than $16 million was provided to school
authorities to support high fuel costs.




64                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                            RESULTS ANALYSIS


School Bus Driver Grant
The School Bus Driver Grant compensates school authorities and new school bus drivers for the time it takes
to complete their training to help address concerns about driver shortages, recruitment and retention. The
grant has provided $8.5 million to support the training of new Class 2 and Class 4 school bus drivers since
it was introduced in April 2023. School authorities received $4.7 million in funding for 1,315 drivers who
completed training from April 2024 to March 2025.

4.4    Implement school capital strategies to increase the number of classrooms in areas of greatest need.

To keep pace with rising student enrolment, Alberta Education invested in new schools and delivered
additional student spaces in the fastest-growing communities for students to learn, grow and reach their
full potential. Through Budget 2024, Alberta Education provided $2.8 billion for school construction as a
three-year capital investment, funding 99 school projects in various stages across the province. Approximately
$140 million was also provided for the production and distribution of modular classrooms for the 2024-25
school year, resulting in the creation of an additional 4,550 student spaces and the relocation of more than
700 student spaces to schools with the greatest space needs.
In 2024-25, Alberta Education:
• advanced 31 priority school projects, including 23 new schools, three replacement schools and five
  modernizations;
• prioritized 15 school projects in the Calgary metro area and 11 school projects in the Edmonton metro
  area, creating over 23,000 new or updated student spaces;
• approved full construction funding for 18 priority school projects; and
• built 12 schools in 11 communities across the province, with the new schools operating in Blackfalds,
  Camrose, Coaldale, Edmonton, Fort Vermillion, Grande Prairie, Langdon, Leduc, Manning, Red Deer
  and Sherwood Park. These 12 capital projects added more than 11,000 new and updated student spaces.

School Construction Accelerator Program
The School Construction Accelerator Program was announced in September 2024. Through the program,
Alberta Education committed an additional $8.6 billion for school construction to create new and updated
student spaces. This will deliver more than 100 new and updated schools over the next seven years. The
program, together with previously approved school projects and an additional $150 million over three years
to supply modular classrooms, will deliver approximately 200,000 new and modernized spaces for students
over the next seven years.
The School Construction Accelerator Program speeds up the construction of schools by approving school
projects for their next stage in the construction process in-year, allowing projects to move through planning,
design and construction stages without having to wait until the next budget cycle for approval, reducing
project timelines by as much as six months. Through this change, and funded as part of the $8.6 billion
school capital investment, 22 previously announced priority school projects across the province were approved
to move from one stage to the next in the construction funding process. Of the 22 projects, 17 were approved
to move from the design stage to full construction funding. Eight of the new school projects will be in
Edmonton, four in Calgary and one each in Airdrie, Chestermere, Okotoks, Barrhead, Breton, Mallaig,
Spruce Grove, Taber, Wainwright and Redcliff, creating or updating more than 21,000 student spaces.
The funding will also accommodate increased demand for charter school programming and their space needs
by allowing Alberta Education to add 12,500 new charter school student spaces over the next four years
through a Charter School Accelerator pilot program.


Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                        65
RESULTS ANALYSIS


4.5   Continue to create efficiencies within the education system by streamlining financial and
      governance practices.

Alberta Education continues to streamline governance and regulatory practices by reviewing legislation,
policies, forms and other applicable documents to identify opportunities for reducing regulatory requirements.
In 2024-25, Alberta Education provided guidance and clarity to school authorities and created efficiencies
within the education system.

Education Amendment Act, 2024
The Education Act governs Alberta’s education system and identifies the roles and responsibilities of the
Minister, school boards, charter schools and independent (private) schools, teachers, parents and students.

The Education Amendment Act, 2024 received Royal Assent on December 5, 2024. The resulting changes to
the Education Act support families and students navigating complex conversations around gender identity,
sexual orientation and human sexuality, while also supporting continuity in a student’s learning during a
public health emergency or state of emergency.

Changes that came into effect on March 1, 2025, reinforce the importance of students continuing to have
access to education during emergencies. These changes also provide more transparency for parents about
health measures in schools and more guidance and clarity for teachers and school administrators on matters
such as shifts to at-home learning during public emergencies.

Changes coming into effect on September 1, 2025, will increase transparency and strengthen communication
to parents. Changes relate to parental notification and consent when a student requests to use a new gender
identity-related preferred name or pronouns; parental notification and opt-in consent for classroom content
dealing primarily and explicitly with gender identity, sexual orientation or human sexuality; and Minister
approval of learning and teaching resources dealing primarily and explicitly with these topics as well as
external parties using or providing such resources in schools.

Superintendent of Schools Regulation
Superintendents play a fundamental role in enhancing school leadership and supporting quality teaching and
optimum learning for all students in their respective school authorities. To support the recruitment of school
leaders, the Superintendent of Schools Regulation was amended through a ministerial order in July 2024 to
align superintendent compensation with the salary increase to public sector management.

School Transportation Amendment Regulation
Recognizing that school transportation is an integral part of the education system, the department
announced changes to the School Transportation Regulation in February 2023, amending the distance criteria
requirements for student transportation eligibility. Following feedback from stakeholders regarding capacity
to meet new criteria, the distance eligibility criteria for Grades 1 to 6 students will be revised to 1.6 kilometres
effective September 1, 2025, instead of the previously announced one kilometre distance. The criteria for
Grades 7 to 12 students will be lowered to two kilometres, as initially announced. Transition funding will be
provided for the 2025-26 school year for school authorities that continue to transport Kindergarten to Grade
6 students who reside between one and 1.6 kilometres from their attending school.




66                                                                               Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                           RESULTS ANALYSIS


Revised Funding Framework
In February 2025, Alberta Education announced a revised funding model to be implemented in the 2025-
26 school year. The new funding allocation method will be based on a two-year average enrolment instead
of three, with 30 per cent of the funding based on the current school year’s enrolment and 70 per cent based
on the upcoming year’s projections. The model will allow the department to be more responsive to growing
school authorities and enable school authorities to access predictable and sustainable funding amid enrolment
increases while shielding authorities from declining enrolment.

Fair Dealing Compliance Program
Alberta Education led the Fair Dealing Compliance Program initiative in partnership with the Council of
Ministers of Education, Canada to provide guidance and reference materials to educators and administrators
for the use of copy-written material and was the main contact for the refund litigation. In response to 2012
changes in law and the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada interpreting fair dealing in an education
setting, the Council of Minsters of Education, Canada Copyright Consortium developed and published the
Fair Dealing Guidelines to help teachers and school administrators understand how to use copyright-protected
works appropriately. The Fair Dealing Guidelines apply to non-profit Kindergarten to Grade 12 schools and
post-secondary education institutions and provide reasonable safeguards for the owners of copyright-protected
works. Litigation matters concluded in spring 2024 with a victory for the participating provinces, territories
and school boards.

Red Tape Reduction
Alberta Education continues to streamline governance and regulatory practices by reviewing legislation,
policies, forms and other applicable documents to identify opportunities for reducing and streamlining
regulatory requirements. In 2024-25, Alberta Education:
• Brought forward minor and technical amendments to the Teaching Profession Act, which received Royal
  Assent on December 5, 2024.
   - Amendments made include administrative and technical corrections to ensure terminology regarding
     certificates and the way they are issued as referenced in the Teaching Profession Act align with the
     Education Amendment Act, 2024.

• Provided updated and streamlined forms to school authorities to enable simpler reporting to meet the
  terms and conditions of the Canada-Alberta Agreement for Minority-Language Education and Second-
  Language instruction.
   - The revised form is available on the Official Languages in Education Programs webpage, and a webinar
     was held on June 7, 2024, to answer stakeholder questions.

• Continued to implement digital and other innovative solutions to improve the delivery of essential
  government services and reduce administrative burden by providing non-regulatory ministerial orders for
  signing via electronic signature.
   - In 2024-25, Alberta Education prepared and received 34 electronically signed ministerial orders.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                       67
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Outcome Four Performance Measures

Performance Measure 4.a:
      Schools are Able to Attract and Retain Teachers

Rationale
• Attracting and retaining qualified teachers in schools is necessary for the delivery of high-quality education.
  Skilled and dedicated educators foster engaging learning environments and provide consistent support to
  students for their long-term academic success.

Target
• The target was not met.

Discussion
• Overall survey results in 2024-25 indicate that 70.3 per cent of principals agreed that they are able to
  attract and retain teachers at school (Chart 4.a).
• Results overall have decreased over time but have remained stable compared to the previous year.
• Principals’ results have decreased for both related survey questions.
• Principal surveys were administered online.

Chart 4.a: Overall Agreement of Principals That They are Able to
Chart 4.a:
Attract andOverall
            Retain Agreement
                    Teachers of Principals That They are Able to
Attract and Retain Teachers
100%
          86.8%
                    82.4%     80.6%                         81.0%
                                        74.5%
                                                  70.3%




     0%
          2020-21   2021-22   2022-23   2023-24   2024-25   Target


Source:
Source:Alberta
        AlbertaEducation:
               Education:CCI
                          CCIResearch
                             ResearchInc.:
                                      Inc.:2021;
                                            2021;Advanis
                                                 AdvanisInc.:
                                                         Inc.:2022,
                                                               2022,2023,
                                                                     2023,2024
                                                                           2024and
                                                                                and2025
                                                                                    2025




68                                                                                   Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                RESULTS ANALYSIS


Table 4.a: Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                          2020-21          2021-22           2022-23              2023-24         2024-25
    Principals                                  86.8             82.4              80.6                74.5            70.3
    Overall Agreement                           86.8             82.4              80.6                74.5            70.3
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.:2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025
Notes:
•     The percentage reported is the average of agreement levels on the following two survey items:
      - you are able to attract teachers to your school, and
      - you are able to retain teachers in your school.
•     The target for 2024-25 was set in February 2024 based on 2022-23 data.
•     Overall agreement is the average of agreement levels for the respondent group. See Endnote A, page 82, for information on
      calculating overall survey results.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                           69
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Supplementary Information
     Teacher Preparation

Rationale
• Teacher education training and professional development is important in maintaining the quality of the
  Kindergarten to Grade 12 education system.

Discussion
• Overall survey results in 2024-25 indicate that 68.3 per cent of teachers and school board trustees agreed
  that teachers are prepared for teaching.
• Results overall have decreased over time but have remained stable compared to the previous year.
• School board trustees’ results have been consistently higher than those of teachers.
• Teachers’ agreement has decreased over time for the following five survey questions:
     - teacher education program prepared them adequately to meet the Teaching Quality Standard for initial
       certification,
     - recent Bachelor of Education graduates are well prepared to meet their responsibilities as teachers,
     - professional development opportunities effectively addressed teacher’s professional development needs,
     - professional development opportunities contributed significantly to teacher’s ongoing professional
       development, and
     - professional development opportunities have been focused on the priorities of the jurisdiction.
• The survey of teachers was conducted online in 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24, and 2024-25, whereas
  previously it was administered by telephone. This change in methodology may have affected the results.
  Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
• School board trustees’ agreement that recent Bachelor of Education graduates are well prepared to meet
  their responsibilities as teachers has decreased over time.

Overall Agreement of Teachers and School Board Members
 Overall
that     Agreement
     Teachers      of Teachers
              are Prepared       and School Board Trustees that
                            for Teaching
 Teachers are Prepared for Teaching
100%

          81.1%
                    73.3%     72.5%     71.6%     68.3%




     0%
          2020-21   2021-22   2022-23   2023-24   2024-25

Source:Alberta
Source: AlbertaEducation:
               Education:CCI
                          CCIResearch
                             ResearchInc.:
                                      Inc.:2021;
                                           2021;Advanis
                                                 AdvanisInc.:
                                                         Inc.:2022,
                                                              2022,2023,
                                                                    2023,2024
                                                                         2024and
                                                                              and2025
                                                                                 2025




70                                                                                Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                             RESULTS ANALYSIS


Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                         2020-21           2021-22           2022-23           2023-24          2024-25
    Teachers                                    74.3             65.8              61.0              58.9             56.6
    School Board Trustees                       88.0             80.7              84.0              84.2             80.1
    Overall Agreement                           81.1             73.3              72.5              71.6             68.3
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.:2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025
Notes:
•     For the teacher respondent group, the percentages reported are averages of teachers’ agreement that:
      - teacher education programs prepared them adequately to meet the Teaching Quality Standard for initial certification,
      - recent Bachelor of Education graduates are well prepared to meet their responsibilities as teachers,
      - professional development opportunities effectively addressed their professional development needs,
      - professional development opportunities contributed significantly to their ongoing professional development, and
      - professional development opportunities have been focused on the priorities of the jurisdiction.
•     For the school board trustee respondent group, the percentages reported are averages of school board trustees’ agreement
      that:
      - recent Bachelor of Education graduates are well prepared to meet their responsibilities as teachers,
      - professional development opportunities effectively addressed teachers’ professional development needs,
      - professional development opportunities contributed significantly to teachers’ ongoing professional development, and
      - professional development opportunities have been focused on the priorities of the jurisdiction.
•     The survey of teachers was conducted online from 2021-22 onwards, whereas previously it was administered by telephone,
      and this may have affected results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
•     Overall agreement rates are the average of agreement rates for each respondent group. See Endnote A, page 82, for
      information on calculating overall survey results.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                            71
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Performance Measure 4.b:
      Safe, Caring and Healthy Learning Environment

Rationale
• A safe, caring and healthy learning environment is fundamental to facilitating student learning.

Target
• The target was not met.

Discussion
• In 2024-25, 83.6 per cent of students, parents, teachers and school board trustees agreed that schools
  provide a safe, caring and healthy learning environment (Chart 4.b).
• Results overall have decreased over time but have remained stable compared to the previous year.
• Students’ agreement that students treat each other well at school and that teachers care about students
  has decreased over time.
• Parent agreement that students feel safe at school or during remote learning; that students treat each other
  well at school; that students are treated fairly by adults at school; that students are learning how to stay
  healthy at school; and satisfaction that schools are contributing to students’ development of social skills as
  well as emotional well-being has decreased over time. In contrast, parent agreement that schools promote
  physical activity as well as the gym, playground and other facilities such as sports fields and fitness areas
  at their school meet the daily physical activity needs of students has increased over time.
• Teacher agreement that school promotes physical activity; and students have healthy food choices in the
  school cafeteria, canteen, vending machines, and at classroom and school events has remained stable over
  time. Teacher agreement has decreased over time for all other related survey questions. The survey of
  teachers was conducted online in 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24, and 2024-25, whereas previously it was
  administered by telephone. This change in methodology may have affected the results. Caution should
  be exercised when comparing results over time.
• Among the four respondent groups, parent and teacher agreement are lowest regarding students having
  healthy food choices in the school cafeteria, canteen, vending machines, and at classroom and school
  events.
• School board trustee agreement is lowest regarding school contributing to students’ development of
  emotional well-being.




72                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS


 Chart4.b:
Chart  4.b:Overall
            OverallSatisfaction
                   SatisfactionofofHigh
                                   HighSchool
                                         SchoolStudents,
                                                Students,Parents,
                                                          Parents,
Teachers and School Board Trustees that School Provides aaSafe,
 Teachers  and School  Board  Trustees  that School Provides  Safe,
 Caring, and Healthy Learning   Environment
Caring, and Healthy Learning Environment
100%
           86.5%     84.4%      84.5%      84.1%                 85.3%
                                                        83.6%




    0%
          2020-21   2021-22    2022-23    2023-24    2024-25     Target


 Source:Alberta
Source:  AlbertaEducation:
                 Education:CCI
                            CCIResearch
                                ResearchInc.:
                                         Inc.:2021;
                                               2021;Advanis
                                                     AdvanisInc.:
                                                             Inc.:2022,
                                                                   2022,2023,
                                                                         2023,2024
                                                                               2024and
                                                                                    and2025
                                                                                        2025



Table 4.b: Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                           2020-21           2021-22           2022-23           2023-24            2024-25
    High School Students                         84.7              83.0              84.5               86.0                 84.8
    Parents (Early Childhood
                                                 83.6              83.4              82.5               80.5                 82.0
    Services to Grade 12)
    Teachers                                     88.8              84.6              82.7               81.3                 79.3
    School Board Trustees                        89.1              86.6              88.1               88.6                 88.1
    Overall Satisfaction                         86.5              84.4              84.5               84.1                 83.6
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.: 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025
Notes:
•     For all respondent groups and for all years, percentages reported are averages of agreement/satisfaction levels that:
      - students feel safe at school or during remote learning (In teacher and school board trustee surveys, this item was changed
         to “students feel safe at school”),
      - children/students feel safe on the way to and from school,
      - children/students treat each other well at school,
      - teachers care about their students,
      - children/students are treated fairly by adults at school,
      - schools promote physical activity,
      - children/students are learning about how to stay healthy,
      - children/students have healthy food choices in the school cafeteria, canteen, vending machines, and at classroom and
         school events,
      - gym, playground, and other facilities such as sports fields and fitness areas at school meet the daily physical activity needs
         of children/students,
      - schools are contributing to children’s/students’ development of social skills,
      - schools are contributing to children’s/students’ development of physical abilities,
      - schools are contributing to children’s/students’ development of emotional well-being, and
      - students reporting at least one day of physical activity (of at least 30 minutes) at school in the past five school days.
•     The survey of teachers was conducted online from 2021-22 onwards, whereas previously it was administered by telephone,
      and this may have affected results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
•     The target for 2024-25 was set in February 2024 based on 2022-23 data.
•     Overall satisfaction rates are the average of agreement/satisfaction rates for each respondent group. See Endnote A,
      page 82, for information on calculating overall survey results.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.

 Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                             73
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Supplementary Information
     Quality of Kindergarten to Grade 12 Education

Rationale
• High quality Kindergarten to Grade 12 education meets the needs of all students, society and the
  economy.

Discussion
• Overall survey results in 2024-25 indicate that 77.6 per cent of high school students, parents, teachers,
  school board trustees, and the public were satisfied with the overall quality of Kindergarten to Grade 12
  education.
• Results overall have decreased over time but have remained stable compared to the previous year.
• Public satisfaction continues to be lower compared to the satisfaction of other respondent groups.
• Student agreement that school work is challenging has decreased over time.
• Parent satisfaction with the quality of teaching at their child’s school has decreased over time. Similarly,
  parent agreement that the highest priority of Alberta’s education system is the success of the students has
  decreased over time. However, parent agreement that their child clearly understands what students are
  expected to learn at school has increased over time.
• Teacher satisfaction with the quality of education and the quality of teaching at their school has decreased
  over time. Similarly, teacher agreement that the highest priority of Alberta’s education system is the success
  of the student, that school work is interesting, and that students clearly understand what they are expected
  to learn at school has decreased over time. The survey of teachers was conducted online in 2021-22,
  2022-23, 2023-24, and 2024-25, whereas previously it was administered by telephone. This change in
  methodology may have affected the results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
• School board trustee satisfaction with the quality of education at schools in their jurisdiction has decreased
  over time. Similarly, school board trustee agreement that the highest priority of Alberta’s education system
  is the success of the student, and that students in their jurisdiction clearly understand what they are
  expected to learn at school has decreased over time.
• Public satisfaction with the quality of education at school in their community has decreased over time.




74                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS


 Overall Satisfaction
Overall  Satisfaction of
                       of High
                          High School
                               School Students,
                                      Students, Parents,
                                                 Parents, Teachers
                                                           Teachers,and
 School  Board   Trustees
School Board Members       and the Public With the Quality of Kindergarten
 Kindergarten   to Grade
to Grade 12 Education     12 Education
100%

             84.6%
                       80.2%     79.4%      78.6%        77.6%




     0%
             2020-21   2021-22   2022-23   2023-24    2024-25


Source:Alberta
Source: AlbertaEducation:
               Education:CCI
                          CCIResearch
                             ResearchInc.:
                                      Inc.:2021;
                                            2021;Advanis
                                                 AdvanisInc.:
                                                         Inc.:2022,
                                                               2022,2023,
                                                                     2023,2024
                                                                           2024and
                                                                                and2025
                                                                                    2025



Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                           2020-21            2021-22           2022-23          2023-24           2024-25
    High School Students                          89.0              88.0              89.4             89.5                 87.8
    Parents (Early Childhood
                                                  78.4              80.0              79.0             75.7                 76.4
    Services to Grade 12)
    Teachers                                      88.9              80.5              73.6             74.4                 68.3
    School Board Trustees                         92.5              87.6              90.5             90.4                 87.8
    Public                                        73.9              65.0              64.7             62.8                 67.6
    Overall Satisfaction                          84.6              80.2              79.4             78.6                 77.6
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.: 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025
Notes:
•     For high school students, parents, teachers and school board trustees, percentages reported are averages of agreement/
      satisfaction levels with the following specific aspects of the school system:
      -   overall satisfaction with education at schools,
      -   the quality of teaching at schools,
      -   the highest priority of the education system is the success of the children/students,
      -   school work is interesting,
      -   school work is challenging, and
      -   learning expectations at school are clear.
•     For the public, the percentage reported is the average of agreement/satisfaction levels with the following two aspects of the
      school system:
      - overall satisfaction with education at schools, and
      - the highest priority of the education system is the success of the children/students.
•     The survey of teachers was conducted online from 2021-22 onwards, whereas previously it was administered by telephone,
      and this may have affected results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
•     Overall satisfaction is the average of agreement/satisfaction levels for each respondent group. See Endnote A, page 82, for
      information on calculating overall survey results.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                              75
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Performance Measure 4.c:
      Supports and Services

Rationale
• Accessing supports and services in a timely manner has an influence on student achievement and is one of
  the important factors for effective learning.

Target
• The target was not met.

Discussion
• Overall survey results in 2024-25 indicate that 72.9 per cent of high school students, parents, teachers, and school
  board trustees agreed that supports and services for students can be accessed in a timely manner (Chart 4.c).
• Results overall have decreased over time but have remained stable compared to the previous year.
• Results for parents and teachers are consistently lower than those of other respondent groups.
• Parent agreement was lowest regarding school helping struggling students keep up with their studies.
• Teacher agreement has decreased over time for all related survey questions. The survey of teachers was
  conducted online in 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24, and 2024-25, whereas previously it was administered by
  telephone. This change in methodology may have affected the results. Caution should be exercised when
  comparing results over time.
• Teacher agreement was lowest regarding timely access to:
     - services (beyond regular instruction) that help students read and write at school when needed; and
     - student assessment services for students with learning difficulties.
• School board trustee agreement has decreased over time for the following:
     - support services for students with disabilities can be accessed in a timely manner at school when needed; and
     - student assessment services for students with learning difficulties can be accessed in a timely manner at
       school when needed.

 Chart 4.c: Overall Agreement of High School Students, Parents, Teachers,
Chart 4.c: Overall Agreement of High School Students, Parents,
 and School Board Trustees that Supports and Services for Students can
Teachers, and School Board Trustees that Supports and Services
 be Accessed in a Timely Manner
for Students can be Accessed in a Timely Manner
100%

         82.1%
                   77.3%      75.8%                          76.0%
                                        73.9%     72.9%




   0%
         2020-21   2021-22   2022-23   2023-24    2024-25    Target

 Source:Alberta
Source:  AlbertaEducation:
                 Education:CCI
                            CCIResearch
                                ResearchInc.:
                                         Inc.:2021;
                                               2021;Advanis
                                                     AdvanisInc.:
                                                             Inc.:2022,
                                                                   2022,2023,
                                                                         2023,2024
                                                                               2024and
                                                                                    and2025
                                                                                        2025




76                                                                                       Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS


Table 4.c: Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                           2020-21           2021-22           2022-23           2023-24            2024-25
    High School Students                         89.0              86.7              88.8              88.6              86.8
    Parents (Early Childhood
                                                 76.5              76.7              72.9              71.0              71.8
    Services to Grade 12)
    Teachers                                     78.5              65.0              62.8              58.0              56.7
    School Board Trustees                        84.4              80.6              78.9              77.8              76.3
    Overall Agreement                            82.1              77.3              75.8              73.9              72.9
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.:2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025
Notes:
•     For high school students, the percentage reported is the average of the following agreement levels:
      - your school is helping struggling students keep up in their studies,
      - it is easy to get help with school work at your school if you need it,
      - you can get help at your school with problems that are not related to school work,
      - when you need it, teachers at your school are available to help you,
      - at school, students can get the help they need with reading and writing, and
      - your school provides the learning resources, such as text books, software, audio and video materials,
         that meet your needs.
•     For parents, the percentage reported is the average of the following agreement/satisfaction levels:
      - your child’s school is helping struggling students keep up in their studies,
      - your child can easily access programs and services to get help with school work,
      - your child can get help at school with problems that are not related to school work,
      - when your child needs it, teachers at your child’s school are available to help him or her,
      - your child’s school provides the learning resources, such as text books, software, audio and video materials,
         that meet the needs of your child,
      - your child can access services (beyond regular instruction) that help your child read and write in a timely
         manner at school when needed, and
      - your child can access academic counselling in a timely manner at school when needed.
•     For teachers and school board trustees, the percentage reported is the average of the following agreement/satisfaction levels:
      - students can easily access programs and services at school to get help with school work,
      - students can get help at school with problems that are not related to school work,
      - when students need it, teachers are available to help them,
      - schools provide the learning resources, such as text books, software, audio and video materials, that meet the needs of
         students,
      - students can access services (beyond regular instruction) that help them to read and write in a timely manner at school
         when needed,
      - students can access academic counselling in a timely manner at school when needed,
      - students can access support for students with disabilities in a timely manner at school when needed, and
      - student assessment services for students with learning difficulties can be accessed in a timely manner at
         school when needed.
•     The target for 2024-25 was set in February 2024 based on 2022-23 data.
•     The survey of teachers was conducted online from 2021-22 onwards, whereas previously it was administered by telephone,
      and this may have affected results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
•     Overall agreement rates are the average of agreement/satisfaction rates for each respondent group. See Endnote A, page 82,
      for information on calculating overall survey results.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                             77
RESULTS ANALYSIS



Supplementary Information
     Learning Space at School

Rationale
• Learning space has an influence on student achievement and is an important contributing factor for
  effective teaching and learning at school.

Discussion
• Overall survey results in 2024-25 indicate that 74.2 per cent of high school students, parents, teachers
  and school board trustees were satisfied that the learning space in schools meets the needs of students.
• Results overall have decreased over time but remain stable compared to the previous year.
• Student and parent results have been consistently higher than those of teachers and school board trustees
  overtime.
• Student satisfaction has decreased over time for all related survey questions.
• Teacher satisfaction that the facilities, equipment and space meet the learning needs of students and that
  the school building is well-maintained has decreased over time. The survey of teachers was conducted
  online in 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24 and 2024-25, whereas previously it was administered by telephone.
  This change in methodology may have affected the results. Caution should be exercised when comparing
  results over time.
• School board trustee satisfaction that the facilities, equipment and space at schools in their jurisdiction
  meet the learning needs of students has decreased over time.


OverallSatisfaction
Overall  Satisfactionof
                      ofHigh
                         HighSchool
                             SchoolStudents,
                                     Students,Parents,
                                               Parents,Teachers
                                                        Teachersand
and School   Board  Trustees That the Learning Space in
School Board Trustees That the Learning Space in Schools Schools
                                                            Meets the
Meets   the Needs
Needs of Students  of Students
100%

         84.3%     80.7%
                              77.6%
                                        75.5%      74.2%




   0%
        2020-21   2021-22    2022-23   2023-24    2024-25


Source:
 Source:Alberta
         AlbertaEducation:
                 Education:CCI
                            CCIResearch
                                ResearchInc.:
                                         Inc.:2021;
                                               2021;Advanis
                                                     AdvanisInc.:
                                                             Inc.:2022,
                                                                   2022,2023,
                                                                         2023,2024
                                                                               2024and
                                                                                    and2025
                                                                                        2025.




78                                                                                       Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                  RESULTS ANALYSIS



Survey Results (in percentages)
    Respondent Group                           2020-21            2021-22            2022-23            2023-24         2024-25
    High School Students                          92.7              89.8               87.5              88.2            86.1
    Parents (Early Childhood
                                                  84.5              85.6               87.1              83.9            84.0
    Services to Grade 12)
    Teachers                                      76.0              68.5               63.2              57.2            53.4
    School Board Trustees                         84.0              78.8               72.6              72.6            73.2
    Overall Satisfaction                          84.3              80.7               77.6              75.5            74.2
Source: Alberta Education: CCI Research Inc.: 2021; Advanis Inc.:2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025
Notes:
•     For high school students, the percentage reported is the average of the following satisfaction levels:
      -   satisfaction with the facilities at your school,
      -   satisfaction with the equipment at your school,
      -   satisfaction that your school has enough space in the buildings and grounds to meet the learning needs of students,
      -   satisfaction that your school building meets your physical needs, and
      -   satisfaction that your school building is well-maintained.
•     For parents, the percentage reported is the average of the following satisfaction levels:
      -   satisfaction with facilities at your child’s school,
      -   satisfaction with equipment at your child’s school,
      -   satisfaction that your child’s school has enough space to meet your child’s learning needs,
      -   satisfaction that your child’s school building meets your child’s physical needs, and
      -   satisfaction that your child’s school building is well-maintained.
•     For teachers, the percentage reported is the average of the following satisfaction levels:
      -   satisfaction that facilities at your school meet the learning needs of children/students,
      -   satisfaction that the equipment at your school meets the learning needs of children/students,
      -   satisfaction that your school has enough space to meet the learning needs of children/students, and
      -   satisfaction that your school building is well-maintained.
•     For school board trustees, the percentage reported is the average of the following satisfaction levels:
      - satisfaction that facilities at schools in your jurisdiction meet the learning needs of children/students,
      - satisfaction that the equipment at schools in your jurisdiction meets the learning needs of children/students, and
      - satisfaction that schools in your jurisdiction have enough space to meet the learning needs of children/students.
•     The survey of teachers was conducted online from 2021-22 onwards, whereas previously it was administered by telephone,
      and this may have affected results. Caution should be exercised when comparing results over time.
•     Overall satisfaction is the average of satisfaction levels for each respondent group. See Endnote A, page 82, for information
      on calculating overall survey results.
•     See Endnote A, pages 80-81, for information on surveys conducted for Alberta Education.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                             79
RESULTS ANALYSIS



Performance Measure and Indicator Methodology

Endnote A: Notes on Surveys

Provincial Satisfaction Surveys
Alberta Education regularly commissions telephone and online surveys of random samples of the Alberta
public and key education partners. The purpose of these surveys is to obtain perceptions of how the Early
Childhood Services to Grade 12 education system is performing in meeting students’ and society’s needs
and expectations. Professional survey research firms are contracted to administer the surveys, using trained
interviewers and a Computer-Assisted Telephone Interviewing system for telephone surveys, or using a
Computer-Assisted Web Interviewing system for online surveys.
Survey data is compiled by the survey research firm in SPSS format and provided to the ministry for analysis.
Surveys are conducted annually with the public, parents of Early Childhood Services to Grade 12 students,
high school students, teachers, principals, school board trustees, and business and industry employers.
Table 1 provides sampling information about the surveys of Albertans conducted in recent years that are
reported in this annual report. The information includes the respondent groups surveyed, the sample sizes
and the response rates. Also shown are the maximum width confidence intervals for results from each survey.
Results are considered accurate within the confidence interval 19 times out of 20 (i.e., at a confidence level
of 95 per cent). Survey fielding for 2024-25 began in mid-January and concluded in mid-May. The resultant
sample sizes and confidence intervals are shown in the table on page 81. While the table is useful as a rough
guide to the confidence intervals associated with survey results, a confidence interval for the difference is used
to determine whether the difference between two specific survey results (either over time or among respondent
groups) is statistically significant (i.e., likely a real difference, and not due to sampling variation).
The survey instruments for these surveys primarily use four-point response scales (Very Satisfied/ Satisfied/
Dissatisfied/Very Dissatisfied or Strongly Agree/Agree/Disagree/Strongly Disagree), depending on the
question. A few questions use other response scales (e.g., A Lot/Some/Very Little/Not at All or Improved/
Same/Declined). Although not asked, Don’t Know responses and refusals are recorded as well. Results
presented are the combined percentages of respondents who were Very Satisfied/Satisfied or who Strongly
Agreed/Agreed. The survey results are available at education provincial satisfaction surveys.




80                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                            RESULTS ANALYSIS


Table 1: Alberta Education Provincial Satisfaction Surveys: Sample Sizes and
Confidence Intervals
 Survey1                   Year                         2020-21        2021-22         2022-23        2023-24         2024-25
                           Sample                         600             600            600             600             600
 Public2                   Confidence Interval           ±4.0%          ±4.0%           ±4.0%           ±4.0%          ±4.0%
                           Response Rate                  5.8%          10.8%            9.9%           10.3%           1.5%
                           Sample                         800             801            800             801             803
 Parents (ECS-12)2,3       Confidence Interval           ±3.5%          ±3.5%           ±3.5%           ±3.5%          ±3.5%
                           Response Rate                 10.3%          13.4%           13.5%           13.5%          11.4%
                           Sample                         600             602            600             601             601
 High School Students
                      Confidence Interval                ±4.0%          ±4.0%           ±4.0%           ±4.0%          ±4.0%
 (Grades 10-12)2
                      Response Rate                       8.1%           9.3%            9.3%           9.1%            6.7%
                           Sample                         600             635            614             602             609
 Teachers (online)   2,4
                           Confidence Interval           ±4.0%          ±3.9%           ±3.9%           ±4.0%          ±3.9%
                           Response Rate                 15.2%          35.4%           35.4%           29.4%          29.7%
                           Sample                         223             233            243             207             168
 School Board
                           Confidence Interval           ±4.9%          ±4.6%           ±4.6%           ±5.2%          ±6.1%
 Trustees2,5
                           Response Rate                 44.9%          60.5%           65.3%           62.9%          55.6%
                           Sample                         357             387            389             386             359
 Principals (online)   2
                           Confidence Interval           ±4.6%          ±4.4%           ±4.4%           ±4.5%          ±4.7%
                           Response Rate                 15.6%          47.1%           49.2%           40.8%          35.5%
                           Year                         2015-16        2021-22         2022-23        2023-24         2024-25
                           Sample                         800             600             611            600             607
 Business and
                           Confidence Interval           ±3.5%          ±4.0%           ±4.0%           ±4.0%          ±4.0%
 Industry Employers2,6
                           Response Rate                  8.3%           5.0%            3.8%           3.7%            5.0%


Notes:
1.   CCI Research Inc. in 2020-21; and Advanis Inc. in 2021-22, 2022-23, 2023-24 and 2024-25 administered surveys of the
     public, parents, students, teachers, principals, school board trustees, and business and industry employers identified in the
     table above.
2.   Confidence intervals for smaller sample sizes of the respondent groups will be different from confidence intervals for the
     full sample size listed in the table. E.g., for the student respondent group, the confidence interval for n=300 sample size
     will be ± 5.7 per cent.
3.   In the parent survey, some questions were asked only to parents of Grades 3-12 students, or only to parents of Grades
     7-12 students. The sample size achieved for the restricted parent group did not have a significant impact on the confidence
     interval for the measures.
4.   The teacher survey was administered by telephone in 2020-21; whereas it was administered online in 2021-22, 2022-23,
     2023-24 and 2024-25.
5.   Confidence intervals for these samples consider the small population from which the samples are selected, e.g., in 2024-
     25, 486 school board trustees.
6.   The survey of business and industry employers resumed in 2021-22 after several postponements of the administration of
     the survey.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                              81
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Calculating Overall Survey Results
When calculating overall results across all respondent groups for survey measures, a simple average
(rather than a weighted average) is used to reflect each group’s equal importance to the overall result.
Further, although survey results for each respondent group and for overall results are rounded to whole
numbers, the overall average results are calculated from the unrounded result for each respondent group.
This avoids possible double rounding error that might result if overall averages were calculated from rounded
respondent group results.

Use of Confidence Intervals for Interpreting Survey and Survey Measure Results
When a result is obtained by surveying a random sample of the target population, such as the public, parents
or teachers, there is a confidence interval associated with the result, which is expressed as a percentage above
and below the obtained result. A confidence interval indicates how much variation one might expect from the
obtained survey result, as a consequence of sampling and diversity among respondents.
Three key factors influencing the degree of sampling variability associated with survey results are the sample
size of the surveys, the magnitude of the result, and the sample size relative to the size of the population:
• The larger the sample size, the smaller the associated confidence interval.
• Given a constant sample size, confidence intervals are smallest for survey percentages near one per cent
  and 99 per cent and largest for survey percentages near 50 per cent. This is because results near one per
  cent and 99 per cent represent maximum uniformity of the underlying population on the variable being
  measured by the survey (e.g., satisfaction/agreement on various educational issues), while results near
  50 per cent represent maximum diversity of the underlying population on the variable being measured.
• If the sample size is more than 5% of a finite population, then the confidence interval is reduced according
  to a Finite Population Correction Factor.
Table 1 illustrates the interaction of these three factors in determining the margin of error for results from
surveys. The surveys of parents, high school students, teachers and the public all used sample sizes between
600 and 803 in 2024-25 and survey results ranged from 91.2 per cent (for student satisfaction with the
opportunity to receive a solid grounding in core subjects) to 52.4 per cent (for teacher satisfaction with career
education opportunities for students). The margins of error range from 2.3 per cent to 3.9 per cent.
In addition, as survey measures generally combine survey results on multiple questions from multiple
respondent groups, a customized statistical algorithm is used to construct the confidence interval for measure
results.
Confidence intervals for specific results and specific measures are determined by the following procedures:
1. To determine the confidence interval for specific survey results for single respondent groups, an online
   statistical application (https://americanresearchgroup.com/moe.html) is used.
2. Differences in survey results between respondent groups are supported by specific tests using an online
   statistical application (https://sapioresearch.com/significant-difference-calculator/)
3. To determine the confidence interval for specific survey measures with multiple respondent groups,
   a customized statistical algorithm is used.




82                                                                              Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                 RESULTS ANALYSIS


In the Ministry of Education’s annual report, confidence intervals are used to determine:
• whether differences in survey results or in survey measure results over time are likely the result of sampling
  variation or represent actual change; and
• whether differences in survey results among respondent groups in the same year are likely the result of
  sampling variation or represent actual differences.
When comparing results of survey questions over time or among respondent groups, it is concluded that
there is an actual difference between two survey results, 19 times out of 20, if the confidence interval for the
difference does not include zero. When this is the case, it is acknowledged in the related text that there is an
increase, change or significant difference in survey results over time or among groups. When the confidence
interval for the difference does include zero, the observed difference may be due to sampling variation, and we
cannot conclude that the difference is real or significant. In such cases, the related text indicates that results are
similar or stable over time or among respondent groups.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                              83
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Endnote B: Technical Notes

Assessing Results Relative to Targets
Performance targets set expectations for results within specific time frames and are the basis for planning
improvements and assessing results that are within the sphere of influence of the Ministry and school
authorities. They are an important way to gauge whether the education system is improving or falling behind
in obtaining desired results in key areas. Targets clearly establish desired levels of performance better than
recent performance, to be attained within a specific time frame. Targets are quantifiable and expressed in
numerical terms, such as percentages or ratios. They are used as a key tool to drive, measure, improve and
manage performance.
For survey measures, performance is considered to have met the target if the confidence interval for the
result includes the target value. For example, if a measure result is 77 per cent with a confidence interval
of 77 per cent ± 2.5 per cent and a target of 79 per cent, then the target has been met, since the target value
lies within the interval [74.5 per cent, 79.5 per cent]. If the result on the same measure is 75 per cent, with
a confidence interval of 75 per cent ± 2.5 per cent, then the target has not been met since the target value of
79 per cent does not lie within the interval [72.5 per cent, 77.5 per cent].
This method of assessing performance represents a high level of achievement in relation to the target and
considers the sampling variability in the survey process.
For provincial assessments and student outcome measures (e.g., high school completion rate), a one sample
Chi-square statistical test is used to determine whether the result is significantly different from the target.
The target is met when results are not significantly different from the target. The magnitude of the difference
required between the result and the target to establish significance depends on the sample size, for example,
the number of students writing an exam.

Assessing Results Over Time
Changes in results over time are assessed in the discussion of each measure. For survey measures, which
are based on probability sampling, confidence intervals are considered. See Use of Confidence Intervals
for Interpreting Survey and Survey Measure Results in Endnote A on page 82, for an explanation of how
confidence intervals are used to assess changes over time for survey measures.
Changes over time are assessed with a two sample Chi-square statistical test for measures based on tests of
student learning or on administrative data, i.e., derived from tracking groups of students over time, such
as dropout and high school completion rates. The test determines whether the difference between two
proportions (e.g., base year and current year results) is significant. The calculation of Chi-square is based on
the difference between what was observed and what would be expected assuming that the proportions were
the same. Under a simple test of proportions, a Chi-square value of “1” represents a difference of one standard
deviation, while a Chi-square value of 3.84 is significant at the five per cent level. Discussion of results over
time for the non-survey measures is supported by this test of significant difference.

Trend Lines
Although not appearing in the annual report, trend lines are an aid for interpreting the results for measures
reported in the annual report. Trend lines augment data interpretation techniques already in use, such as the
calculation of confidence intervals, and are used to determine the significance of changes in measure results
over time.




84                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS


Trend lines are used to develop an expected value for a current result given historical results. The expected
value can then be compared with the actual result. In this way, trend lines provide a useful method of
understanding year-to-year fluctuations and shift the focus from smaller year-to-year changes by providing
information about the direction of results over the longer term. It is of interest whether results are tracking
towards the performance target for the measures that have not met targets.
Discussion of results over time for measures with at least three data points are supported by trend lines. The
type of trend line used is selected based on an informed interpretation of the data series underlying the trend.
Logarithmic trend lines are appropriate for proportional data, i.e., data expressed as percentages of a whole and
therefore ranging between zero per cent and 100 per cent, such as the performance measures in this report. A
logarithmic trend line is a best-fit straight line that is most useful when the rate of change in the data increases
or decreases quickly, then levels out. The leveling out can be seen in the results for some measures in the
report, along with examples of year-to-year changes in other measures.
A logarithmic trend line is calculated using the following formula:
Y = cln(x) + b, where c and b are constants and ln( ) is the natural logarithm function and x is the year of the
series.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                              85
RESULTS ANALYSIS


Endnote C: Methodology for Performance Measures
Described below are the methodologies used to calculate the measures that are derived from provincial
assessments of student learning and from other information about Alberta students in the Ministry of
Education’s data systems.

Definition of Alberta Student
An Alberta student is an individual who is registered as of September 30 of the school year in a school located
in Alberta, where “school” means a structured learning environment through which an education program
is offered to a student by: a board (includes public, separate, francophone, Lloydminster); an operator of
an independent (private) school; an Early Childhood Services program private operator; the operator of a
charter school; a parent giving a home education program; the Minister. It also includes other Alberta-located
educational institutions providing Early Childhood Services to Grade 12 curriculum instruction, specifically
federal (First Nations’ schools and those operated by Corrections Canada); and provincial authorities (such as
Bow Valley College and NorQuest College).

Results for First Nations, Métis and Inuit Students
Calculating results for First Nations, Métis and Inuit students is possible because school authorities are required
to include a voluntary First Nations, Métis and Inuit self-identification question on school registration forms
and to report the identifier to the ministry’s student data system. Self-identification of students has increased
each year. Students’ First Nations, Métis and Inuit self-identification information associated with their most
recent school registration is used to calculate results. This provides the most complete results and reflects the
student’s intent to be identified each year.

Annual Dropout Rate of Students Aged 14-18
The annual dropout rate reports the percentages of Alberta students aged 14-18 in public, separate,
francophone, charter, and accredited independent (private) schools who, in the following school year:
• are not enrolled in the Kindergarten to Grade 12 system;
• are not enrolled in a post-secondary institution in Alberta;
• are not registered in an apprenticeship program in Alberta; and
• have not completed high school.
The annual dropout rate is derived from student data in Alberta Education and Alberta Advanced Education
systems. Adjustments for attrition are based on estimates from Alberta Demographic Estimates 48_CD_DR_
AG_2002_2024.xlsx and DMTI_December2024_Education.xlsx.
Alberta students who are identified as having a moderate or severe cognitive disability or a severe multiple
disability are not included in the annual dropout rate.
Annual dropout rate is calculated by dividing the number of students who have dropped out of school (adjusted
for attrition) by the number of 14- to-18-year-old students who were registered in the Kindergarten to Grade
12 system in the previous school year (the age specific cohort), less attrition as shown in the formula below:
Count of Students        Count of 14-18
                                                                    Annual
who Drop Out             Year Old Students
                                                  Attrition         Dropout
(adjusted for            in One Year (Age
                                                                    Rate
attrition)               Specific Cohort)




86                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                             RESULTS ANALYSIS



High School Completion Rates
The high school completion rate reports the percentage of Alberta students in public, separate, francophone,
charter and accredited funded independent (private) schools who, within three, four and five years of entering
Grade 10:
• received an Alberta High School Diploma, an Alberta High School Equivalency Diploma (General
  Education Development or Canadian Adult Education Credential), or the Certificate of High School
  Achievement (completion of Knowledge and Employability courses and the certificate requirements);
• entered an Alberta post-secondary program or an apprenticeship program; or
• passed a minimum of five Grade 12 courses, including a Language Arts diploma examination course and
  three other diploma examination courses.
Data for this measure are from Alberta Education and Alberta Advanced Education systems. The provincial
rate is calculated by dividing the number of high school completers, as defined above, by the number of
students in the Grade 10 cohort, adjusted for attrition, as shown in the formula below.

                                                         High School
  High School               Grade 10     Attrition
                                                         Completion
  Completers                Cohort       Factor
                                                         Rate

The tracking of Grade 10 students excludes some students, such as those identified as having a severe or
moderate cognitive disability or a severe multiple disability.
The educational attainment of Albertans aged 25-34 is derived from Statistics Canada Labour Force Survey,
special tabulation for Alberta Education.

High School to Post-Secondary Transition Rates
The high school to post-secondary transition rate reports the percentages of Alberta students in public,
separate, francophone, charter and accredited independent (private) schools who, within four and six years
of starting Grade 10:
• enrolled in a credit program, part-time or full-time, in an Alberta post-secondary institution; or
• registered in an apprenticeship program other than the Registered Apprenticeship Program for high school
  students.
Alberta students are tracked using data from the Alberta Education and the Alberta Advanced Education
systems. The high school to post-secondary transition rates include adjustments for attrition and for
attendance at post-secondary institutions out of province.
The High School to Post-Secondary Transition Rate is calculated by dividing the number of students who
enter post-secondary programs by the number of students in the Grade 10 cohort, adjusted for attrition, as
shown in the formula below.

                           Estimate of
  In-Province
                           Out-of-Province           Grade 10      Attrition        Transition
  Post-Secondary
                           Post-Secondary            Cohort        Factor           Rate
  Attenders
                           Attenders


The tracking of Grade 10 students excludes some students, such as those identified as having a severe or
moderate cognitive disability or a severe multiple disability.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                        87
RESULTS ANALYSIS



Attrition Adjustment
Attrition estimates are applied to all the four student outcomes measures – the High School Completion Rate,
the Post-Secondary Transition Rate, the Dropout Rate and the Diploma Examination Participation Rate.
Attrition is the estimate of the number of students from the Grade 10 cohort who leave the province or die in
the years subsequent to the start of Grade 10. The attrition estimate is based on the following factors:
a) mortality;
b) emigration;
c) interprovincial out migration;
d) an estimate of the percentage of 16-, 17-, and 18-year-olds who are enrolled in school
   (school participation rate); and
e) a downward adjustment to account for youth who are not in school.
The provincial attrition estimate aggregates census division level data from Alberta Demographic Estimates
48_CD_DR_AG_2002_2024.xlsx.

Out-of-Province Post-Secondary Student Adjustment
Alberta Education does not specifically track Alberta students who participate in post-secondary programs
outside of Alberta. An estimate of the number of students who have left the province to pursue post-
secondary education is therefore factored into the high school to post-secondary transition rate.
The out-of-province estimate uses aggregate counts of Alberta students receiving financial assistance for
studies both in-province and out-of-province based on data from Advanced Education’s Students Finance
System (SFS) and the Data Collection and Reporting (DCAR) system. The premise is that in any given year,
the percentage of students from the Grade 10 Cohort attending post-secondary programs out-of-province is
similar to the percentage of students receiving financial assistance for study out-of-province.

Provincial Achievement Tests
2024-25 provincial achievement test results will be available in fall of 2025 and published in the Annual
Report Update.
Students in grades 6 and 9 write provincial achievement tests annually in English Language Arts and
Literature, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies. The achievement test results for grades 6 and 9 provide
information on how well Alberta students are meeting provincial standards in the core academic subjects.
Tests are developed and administered by teachers and educators and are based on the provincial curriculum.
Results are reported in relation to the acceptable standard and standard of excellence.
A student achieving the acceptable standard in a specific grade shows an adequate understanding of the core
knowledge and adequate basic skills essential to that course. A student achieving the standard of excellence
consistently shows a deeper understanding of the concepts of the course by demonstrating an ability to
integrate information and evaluate it from various points of view.
For each achievement test, the cut scores for the acceptable standard and the standard of excellence are set
initially by a standard-setting committee of about 20 teachers selected from across the province using the
Modified Angoff and Bookmark Standard Setting Procedures. These procedures use teachers’ judgment to
determine a minimum number of items a student must answer correctly – the cut score – to achieve each
standard. In subsequent years, the cut scores for each test are adjusted through test equating. This ensures




88                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                               RESULTS ANALYSIS



the standards remain constant even if test difficulty varies slightly from year to year. Whenever curriculum is
revised, the standard-setting process is done again.
Not all students write the provincial achievement tests. Achievement test results are not available for students
who:
• were absent;
• were excused from writing by the superintendent because participation would be harmful to the student or
  the student could not respond to the test instrument; or
• wrote but whose results were withheld or invalidated.
It is possible that some of these students, under different circumstances, could have demonstrated achievement
of standards on the test.
Participation rates in achievement tests are calculated by dividing the number of students in the grade
who wrote the test by the sum of total enrolment in the grade plus the ungraded students who are in the
corresponding year of schooling.
Provincial overall results in Language Arts, Mathematics, Social Studies and Science present weighted
averages based on the number of students enrolled in each course. Results for Mathematics, Sciences and
Social Studies include results for both English and French versions of the tests. Test results and participation
are recorded and aggregated in ministry systems. Provincial, school authority and school results are available
at provincial achievement tests.

Diploma Examinations
2024-25 diploma examination results will be available in fall 2025 and published in the Annual Report
Update.
Examinations are administered in all diploma examination courses in January, June and August each year.
Examinations are administered in selected courses in November and April. Provincial assessments are meant
to complement but not replace day-to-day classroom assessment. Results on diploma examinations show how
well Alberta students in public, separate, francophone, charter and accredited independent (private) schools
are meeting provincial expectations as outlined in the Programs of Study. Examination items are developed
and standards are established by committees of teachers. The examination design is vetted through committees
of stakeholders and by a standard-setting committee of teachers.
A test equating initiative has been phased in for the diploma examination program so that over time
examinations are consistent and the results are comparable. The multiple-choice portion of the examinations
contains a set of items common to administrations in subsequent years. By comparing the achievement of
students writing in a baseline session with those writing in any subsequent administration on the common
items and on the unique items, Alberta Education is able to determine whether or not the examinations are
of equal difficulty. Student scores on the subsequent examinations can then be equated back to the baseline
examinations to remove any influence that differences in examination difficulty may have on student scores.
Through equating, test results for a particular course are based on an identical standard and, consequently, can
be directly compared over time. As a result of implementing the equating process, diploma examination results
are comparable over time as follows:




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                              89
RESULTS ANALYSIS



• Biology 30, English Language Arts 30-1, and English Language Arts 30-2 since 2005-06;
• Science 30 and Chemistry 30 since 2010-11;
• Social Studies 30-2 since 2011-12;
• Social Studies 30-1 since 2012-13;
• Physics 30 since 2013-14; and
• Mathematics 30-1 and 30-2 since 2016-17.
Diploma examination results are reported in relation to the acceptable standard and the standard of
excellence. Results for Mathematics, Sciences and Social Studies include results for both English and French
versions of the tests. Provincial overall results present weighted averages based on the numbers of students
achieving standards in all diploma examinations. Students achieving the acceptable standard demonstrate that
they have met the basic requirements of the course. A mark of 50 per cent on the examination represents the
acceptable standard in a diploma examination course. A mark of 80 per cent on the examination represents
the standard of excellence and indicates the student has demonstrated performance significantly beyond the
minimum requirements of the course. The weighting of diploma exams returned to 30% on September 1,
2023 and the school-awarded mark is worth 70%.
Diploma examination results are recorded and aggregated in ministry systems. Provincial, school authority
and school results reports are available at Diploma exams.




90                                                                          Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                      RESULTS ANALYSIS



Appendix: Key Education Partners

Organizations

Alberta Catholic School Trustees’ Association (ACSTA)
Alberta Home Education Association (AHEA)
Alberta Municipalities (ABmunis)
Alberta School Boards Association (ASBA)
Alberta School Councils’ Association (ASCA)
Alberta Teachers’ Association (ATA)
Association canadienne-française de l’Alberta (ACFA)
Association of Independent Schools and Colleges in Alberta (AISCA)
Association of School Business Officials of Alberta (ASBOA)
College of Alberta School Superintendents (CASS)
Council of Catholic School Superintendents of Alberta (CCSSA)
Fédération des conseils scolaires francophones de l’Alberta (FCSFA)
(Federation of Francophone School Boards of Alberta)
Fédération des parents francophones de l’Alberta (FPFA)
Learning Disabilities Association of Alberta (LDAA)
Public School Boards’ Association of Alberta (PSBAA)
Rural Municipalities of Alberta (RMA)
The Association of Alberta Public Charter Schools (TAAPCS)




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                               91
FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Financial Information
Table of Contents

Reporting Entity and Method of Consolidation .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Ministry Financial Highlights .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94
   Statement of Revenues and Expenses (unaudited). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
   Revenue and Expense Highlights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
   Breakdown of Revenues (unaudited). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
   Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object (unaudited). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Supplemental Financial Information. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
   Tangible Capital Assets (unaudited). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
   Portfolio Investments (unaudited). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Other Financial Information .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 104
   Statement of Credit or Recovery (unaudited). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
   Lapse/Encumbrance (unaudited). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
   School Jurisdictions adjusted accumulated reserves from operations (ASO)
   and capital reserves (in thousands). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108




92                                                                                                                                       Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                        FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Reporting Entity and Method of Consolidation

The financial information is prepared in accordance with government’s stated accounting policies, which are
based on Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standards.
The reporting entity is the ministry for which the Minister is accountable. The accounts of the ministry, which
includes the department and entities making up the ministry, are consolidated using the line-by-line method.
Under this method, accounting policies of the consolidated entities are adjusted to conform to those of
the government and the results of each line item in their financial statements (revenues, expenses, assets,
and liabilities) are included in government’s results. Revenue and expense, capital, investing and financing
transactions and related asset and liability balances between the consolidated entities have been eliminated.
A list of the individual entities making up the ministry are shown on the “Management’s Responsibility for
Reporting” statement included in this annual report.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                           93
        FINANCIAL INFORMATION


         Ministry Financial
        Ministry  Financial Highlights
                               Highlights
             Statement of Revenues and Expenses (unaudited)
        Statement  of March
           Year Ended Revenues    and Expenses (unaudited)
                            31, 2025
        Year Ended March 31, 2025

                                                                 2025                       2024                         Change from

                                                        Budget             Actual           Actual              Budget              2024 Actual
                                                                      (in thousands)

        Revenues
         Education Property Taxes                   $    2,733,018    $   2,797,124     $   2,526,314       $      64,106       $       270,810
         Transfers from Government of Canada               136,039          147,107           132,461              11,068                14,646
         Premiums, Fees, and Licences                      228,117          213,128           196,763             (14,989)               16,365
         Investment Income                                  51,070           61,275            53,384              10,205                 7,891
         Internal Government Transfers                     315,888          364,917           321,578              49,029                43,339
         Fundraising, Gifts, and Donations                  66,664           92,918            67,758              26,254                25,160
         Other Revenue                                     190,442          240,955           270,699              50,513               (29,744)
         Ministry total                                  3,721,238        3,917,424         3,568,957             196,186               348,467
         Inter-ministry consolidation adjustments         (315,888)        (395,791)         (356,022)            (79,903)              (39,769)
        Adjusted ministry total                          3,405,350        3,521,633         3,212,935             116,283               308,698


        Expenses - directly incurred
         Ministry Support Services                           6,598            6,161             6,013                (437)                  148
         Instruction - ECS to Grade 12                   7,124,552        7,208,450         6,927,642              83,898               280,808
         Operations and Maintenance                        780,151          792,668           765,679              12,517                26,989
         Student Transportation                            539,725          490,000           446,098             (49,725)               43,902
         School Facilities                                 515,120          570,335           543,753              55,215                26,582
         Governance and System Administration              275,900          279,511           263,400               3,611                16,111
         Program Support Services                          113,030          110,485           105,282              (2,545)                5,203
         Accredited Private Schools and Early              408,157          428,817           393,733              20,660                35,084
             Childhood Service Operators
         Debt Servicing Costs                               50,605           56,223            54,973               5,618                 1,250
         Ministry total                                  9,813,838        9,942,650         9,506,573             128,812               436,077
         Inter-ministry consolidation adjustments          (15,932)         (36,490)          (74,208)            (20,558)               37,718
        Adjusted ministry total                          9,797,906        9,906,160         9,432,365             108,254               473,795

        Annual (deficit)                            $   (6,392,556)   $   (6,384,527)   $   (6,219,430)     $       8,029       $       (165,097)




Classification: Protected A


        94                                                                                              Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                         FINANCIAL INFORMATION


Revenue and Expense Highlights

Revenues
• Revenues totaled $3.9 billion in 2024-25 before inter-ministry consolidation adjustments, an increase of
  $348.5 million from 2023-24. This is primarily due to higher property tax revenues, higher rates of return
  in investment income and revenues generated from fundraising, gifts and donations resulting from higher
  enrolment. Revenues were $196.2 million higher than budget.
• Education property taxes totaled $2.8 billion, an increase of $270.8 million from 2023-24, primarily due
  to higher assessment values for 2024 tax year compared to 2023 tax year. The increase from budget is due
  to timing, because tax rates are assessed on calendar year by Municipal Affairs, however, they are reported
  on fiscal year by Treasury Board and Finance.
• Transfers from the Government of Canada of $147.1 million which includes revenues recognized for
  $125.8 million from school boards to support First Nations, Métis and Inuit students’ tuition fees and
  $21.3 million federal funding provided to support French Language programs.
• Total Premiums, Fees and Licences revenues were $213.1 million, an increase of $16.4 million over the
  prior year actual results due to increased enrolment. An increase in fees were collected for school activities,
  extracurricular fees, travel, field trips, transportation and lunch supervision.
• Investment income amounted to $61.3 million, an increase from the prior year by $7.9 million due to
  higher rates of return.
• Internal Government Transfers totaled $364.9 million, an increase of $49 million from the budget and
  $43.3 million from prior year actuals. This is primarily due to an increase in revenues recognized with
  Alberta Infrastructure for the completion of school building projects and revenues recognized from
  Recovery Alberta for health programs in schools promoting mental health in children and youth.
• Fundraising, Gifts, and Donations were $26.3 million higher than the budget and $25.2 million higher
  than prior year results due to an increase in fundraising events held by schools and higher enrolment
  growth.
• Other Revenue was $50.5 million higher than budget primarily due to higher than anticipated sundry
  revenues such as school rentals and other sales and services. Other Revenue was $29.7 million lower
  compared to last year’s actual results due to lower gains on sales of $24.4 million, decrease in sales, rentals
  and services of $3.6 million; decreased refunds of expenditures of $4.2 million; offset by increases in inter-
  ministry revenues and other miscellaneous revenue of $2.5 million.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                           95
FINANCIAL INFORMATION


Revenue and Expense Highlights (continued)

Expenses
• In 2024-25, the consolidated expenses for school boards and the Department of Education before inter-
  ministry consolidation adjustments were $9.9 billion, an increase of $436.1 million, or 4.6 per cent higher
  than the previous fiscal year.
• The increase was mainly due to:
     - An increase in ECS to Grade 12 Instruction costs of $280.8 million resulting largely from
       increased enrolment that has led to increased costs for teachers and instruction support staff including
       educational assistant. Expenses have also increased due to increased services contract and supplies that
       support student learning;
     - An increase in student transportation costs of $43.9 million is primarily due to enrolment growth.
       Increased spending is also attributed to higher insurance and contractor costs.
     - Accredited Private Schools increased by $35.1 million due to an increase in approvals of new private
       schools and higher funding commitments under the funding model to address increases in enrolment
       for Accredited Private Schools;
     - An increase in operations and maintenance costs of $27 million is primarily due to inflationary
       pressures that have led to increased utilities, natural gas, and insurance costs for schools;
     - School Facilities costs increased by $26.6 million primarily due to the increase in amortization
       expenses due to more tangible capital assets and capital projects going into service for schools;
     - Governance and System Administration costs incurred by the school jurisdictions increased by
       $16.1 million due to higher educational administration, board governance, and by-election costs
       than prior year;
     - Program Support Services increased by $5.2 million primarily due to an increase in department
       spending on education system support;
     - Debt servicing costs increased by $1.3 million and higher Ministry Support Services costs of
       $0.1 million.




96                                                                              Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                         FINANCIAL INFORMATION


Revenue and Expense Highlights (continued)

Expenses (continued)
• Consolidated expenses were $128.8 million more than budget. During the year, there was contingency
  funding of $201.6 million provided to schools which is not included in the budget. The variance was
  mainly due to enrolment growth and increases in school activities:
   - Instruction expenses were $83.8 million higher than expected due to increased enrolment. There have
     been increases in salaries, wages and benefits, services, contracts and supplies, substitute teaching costs,
     field trips and extracurricular activities;
   - Higher School Facilities costs of $55.2 million primarily due to higher amortization expenses as more
     tangible capital assets and capital projects are going into service for schools;
   - A $20.7 million increase in Accredited Private Schools and Early Childhood Service Operators funding
     due to an increase in approvals of private schools and higher funding commitments under the funding
     model to address increases in enrolment for Accredited Private Schools;
   - Operations and Maintenance were $12.5 million higher than expected due to higher operating costs
     and maintenance of school buildings and increased utilities and insurance costs;
   - Debt Servicing costs are $5.6 million higher due to the PS 3160 Public-private partnerships (P3)
     accounting policy restatement which is not reflected in the budget; and
   - Governance and Administration costs are higher by $3.6 million.

• These were offset by lower expenditures than budget for:
   - Transportation costs which decreased by $49.7 million in 2024-25. This is due to the optional
     implementation of the lower distance criteria and many school jurisdictions chose not to implement or
     were not able to build capacity and implement the changes in time, resulting in lower spending.
   - Program Support Services of $2.5 million primarily due to department underspending in expenses
     related to Federal French Program and Education Services resulting from credit or recovery shortfalls
     and lower department amortization expense for systems development; and
   - Ministry Support Services costs that are lower by $0.4 million.

• In the 2024-25 fiscal year, Alberta Education contributed $363.5 million to the Alberta Teachers’
  Retirement Fund for the current service costs of teachers’ pensions.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                          97
FINANCIAL INFORMATION


Breakdown of Revenues (unaudited)
The following information presents detailed revenues of the ministry. The objective of detailed revenues
disclosure is to provide information that is useful in understanding and assessing the financial impact of
government’s revenue raising and for enhancing legislative control.
                                                  2025 Actual
                                                  (in thousands)


                            Fundraising, Gifts,
                                                              Other Revenue
                             and Donations
                                                              $240,955, 6.1%
                             $92,918, 2.4%


              Internal Government
                    Transfers,
                 $364,917, 9.3%

     Investment Income,
        $61,275, 1.6%

                                                                                         Education Property Taxes
       Premiums, Fees,                                                                     $2,797,124, 71.4%
        and Licences
       $213,128, 5.4%

     Transfers from
  Government of Canada
     $147,107, 3.8%




• Education property taxes remained the largest contribution to the ministry’s revenue. In 2024-25,
  education property taxes totaled $2.8 billion, or 71.4 per cent, of the ministry’s revenue.
• Other revenue totaled $241.0 million. The Other revenue category includes other supplies and services
  revenue, rental revenues, gain on disposal of capital assets, and other miscellaneous revenues.




98                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                  FINANCIAL INFORMATION


Expenses – Directly Incurred Detailed by Object (unaudited)
The following information presents expenses of the ministry that were directly incurred by object. The
objective of disclosure of expenses by object is to provide information that is useful in evaluating the
economic impact of government acquiring or consuming various types of resources.
                                                     2025 Actual
                                                     (in thousands)

                                  Other $33,336, 0.3%
                                                             Debt Servicing Costs $56,223, 0.6%
                       Amortization $542,168, 5.5%           Consumption of Inventories of Supplies $23,558, 0.2%


                Grants $517,123, 5.2%




   Supplies and Services                                                                         Salaries, Wages,
    $1,732,715, 17.4%                                                                          Employment Contracts
                                                                                                   and Benefits
                                                                                                $7,037,527, 70.8%




• The ministry’s largest operating expense was salaries, wages and employee benefits of $7.0 billion, which
  accounted for 70.8 per cent of the total operating expenses.
• Supplies and services of $1.7 billion (17.4 per cent) included contracts and contract services and materials
  and supplies.
• Grant expenses totaled $517.1 million (5.2 per cent) and represented primarily grants to Private School
  Authorities.
• The remainder of ministry expenses were amortization of tangible capital assets $542.2 million
  (5.5 per cent) and debt servicing together with consumption of inventories of supplies and other
  expense of $113.1 million (1.1 per cent).




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                 99
FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Supplemental
Supplemental    Financial
             Financial      Information
                       Information

Tangible Capital Assets (unaudited)
Tangible Capital Assets (unaudited)
Net Book
Net BookValue
         Valueasasofof
                     March 31,31,
                       March   2025
                                  2025
 (in thousands)
(in   thousands)

                                                                                                                 2025            2024
                                                                                                                 Total           Total

                                                                                                 Computer
                                                                                                 hardware
                                                                                                   and
                                                Land             Buildings       Equipment       software
              Estimated Useful Life           Indefinite         10-70 yrs        3-25 yrs       3-15 yrs

Historical cost
        Beginning of year                 $       127,113 $ 15,937,724 $           1,207,019 $      491,621 $ 17,763,477 $ 17,252,230
       Additions                                    7,374      680,078               102,479         31,599      821,530      754,950
       Transfers to/from Profit Centers            (2,842)     (10,145)                    -              -      (12,987)           -
       Adjustments                                      -          (17)                 (400)          (140)        (557)    (147,668)
       Disposals including write-downs             (2,838)     (63,187)              (26,913)        (5,371)     (98,309)     (96,035)
                                                  128,807   16,544,453             1,282,185        517,709   18,473,154   17,763,477
Accumulated amortization
     Beginning of year                    $                - $     6,650,719 $       891,888 $      418,488 $    7,961,095 $     7,689,606
     Amortization expense                                  -         431,677          78,263         32,229        542,169         474,775
     Transfers to/from Profit Centers                      -               -               -              -              -               -
     Adjustments                                           -          57,123            (181)           (62)        56,880        (115,175)
     Disposals including write-downs                       -         (28,820)        (30,098)        (4,924)       (63,842)        (88,112)
                                                           -       7,110,699         939,872        445,731      8,496,302       7,961,095

Net book value at March 31, 2025          $       128,807 $        9,433,754 $       342,313 $       71,978 $    9,976,852


Net book value at March 31, 2024          $       127,113 $        9,287,006 $       315,131 $       73,133                  $   9,802,383




100                                                                                              Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                              FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Tangible Capital Assets (unaudited) (continued)
                                                     2025 Actual
                                                     (in thousands)

                          Equipment $342,313, 3.4%
                                                            Computer hardware and software $71,978, 0.7%
                            Land $128,807, 1.3%




                                                                                                Buildings
                                                                                            $9,433,754, 94.6%




• Buildings and construction in progress remained the largest component of tangible capital assets net
  book value. As of March 31, 2025, net book value of buildings and construction in progress totaled
  $9.4 billion, or 94.6 per cent, of the total tangible capital assets net book value. Included in net book
  value of buildings and construction in progress are capital leases of $78.8 million and construction in
  progress of $663.2 million. No amortization is recorded on construction in progress until the asset is
  completed and in use.
• The remainder of ministry net book value of tangible capital assets is equipment and vehicles
  $342.3 million, computer hardware and software $72.0 million and land $128.8 million.
• Alberta Education provided $110.4 million in Capital Maintenance and Renewal (CMR) program
  funding for life-cycle maintenance of schools to ensure healthy and safe learning environments.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                           101
            Portfolio  Investments (unaudited)
            FINANCIAL INFORMATION



            Portfolio Investments (unaudited)

                                                                          2025                            2024
                                                                                  Fair                             Fair
                                                                  Cost                            Cost
                                                                                 Value                            Value


            Interest-bearing securities                                               In thousands
               Deposits and short-term securities             $      144,506 $    142,413 $      151,692 $          151,998
               Bonds and mortgages                                    19,379       19,520         20,968             20,736
                                                                     163,885      161,933        172,660            172,734
            Equities
              Canadian equities                                      12,958        16,344            11,312          13,489
              Global equities                                           467           665               429             581
              Emerging markets equities                                  77           102                45              40
                                                                     13,502        17,111            11,786          14,110

            Inflation sensitive and alternative investments           1,429         1,510             1,594           1,594

                                                              $      178,816 $    180,554 $         186,040 $       188,438



            The following is a breakdown of portfolio investments:

                                                                          2025                            2024

                                                                                  Fair                             Fair
                                                                  Cost                            Cost
                                                                                 Value                            Value

            Operating                                                               In thousands
              Other funds and agencies                        $      168,671 $    170,310 $      176,386 $          178,689
                                                                     168,671      170,310        176,386            178,689

            Endowments                                                10,145       10,244             9,654           9,749
            Total portfolio investments                       $      178,816 $    180,554 $         186,040 $       188,438




Classification: Protected A

            102                                                                          Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                        FINANCIAL INFORMATION


Portfolio Investments (unaudited) (continued)

Comparison of Cost to Fair Value as of March 31, 2025
(in thousands)

$200,000

           $163,885 $161,933

$150,000



$100,000



 $50,000

                                $13,502      $17,111
                                                          $1,429      $1,510
      $-
             Interest-bearing           Equities        Strategic, tactical and
                 securities                             currency investments

                                Cost       Fair Value


• The total portfolio investment for 2025 was $178.8 million at cost and $180.6 million at fair market value.
  Interest-bearing securities and equities are the two largest types of portfolio investments.
• Interest-bearing securities include deposits, short-term securities, bonds and mortgages. Equities include
  Canadian equities and global developed equities.
• In 2025, the fair market value of interest-bearing securities was lower than cost by $1.9 million or
  1.18 per cent while the fair market value of equities was greater than cost by $3.6 million or 26.73 per cent.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                          103
FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Other Financial Information
Other Financial Information
Statement of Credit or Recovery (unaudited)
Statement
Departmentof
          of Credit or Recovery (unaudited)
             Education
Year Ended March 31, 2025
Department of Education
(in thousands)
Year   Ended March 31, 2025
(in thousands)

The  followinghas
The following  hasbeen
                   beenprepared
                        preparedpursuant
                                 pursuant   to Section
                                         to Section    24(3)
                                                    24(3)      of Financial
                                                          of the  the Financial            Act. Act.
                                                                                Administration
                                                                            Administration

                                                                                   Unearned         Total
                                                                     Actual        Revenue/        Amount
                                               Authorized           Revenue         Deferred      Received/         (Shortfall) /
                                               Spending            Recognized     Contributions   Receivable         Excess (1)

Expense Amounts
  1 French Language Program                   $        21,000     $        19,841 $           -   $      19,841 $           (1,159)
  2 Education Services                                  5,225               3,133             -           3,133             (2,092)
                                              $        26,225     $        22,974 $           -   $      22,974 $           (3,251)
(1) Shortfall is deducted from current year's corresponding funding authority.


1. French Language Program: Funding is received from the federal government to support french minority language and
second language education programs.

2. Education Services: Revenue is generated from license agreements and administration fees for education services.
This includes diploma exam re-writes, educational print services, high school transcriptions, teacher certifications and
license agreements for achievement tests and diploma exams.




104                                                                                           Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                        Lapse/Encumbrance (unaudited)
                                        Lapse/Encumbrance
                                        Department of Education(unaudited)
                                        Year Ended March 31, 2025
                                        Department of Education
                                        (in thousands)
                                        Year Ended March 31, 2025
                                        (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                                                    Adjusted                            Over
                                                                                                                     Voted         Supplementary                     Voted           Voted            Expended
                                                                                                                                                              (3)
                                                                                                                   Estimate (1)      Estimate (2) Adjustments       Estimate        Actuals (4)     (Unexpended)

                                        EXPENSE VOTE BY PROGRAM




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                           1 Ministry Support Services
                                              1.1 Minister's Office                                                $        781    $            -   $          -    $        781    $        787    $          6
                                              1.2 Deputy Minister's Office                                                  674                 -              -             674             663             (11)
                                              1.3 Corporate Services                                                      5,143                 -              -           5,143           4,659            (484)
                                                                                                                          6,598                 -              -           6,598           6,109            (489)

                                            2   Education System Support                                                 88,254                 -              -          88,254          86,662          (1,592)
                                                                                                                         88,254                 -              -          88,254          86,662          (1,592)

                                            3   Operating Support for School Jurisdictions
                                                3.1 Base Funding                                                       2,053,913                -              -        2,053,913       2,096,215         42,302
                                                3.2 Learning Support Funding                                           1,524,816                -              -        1,524,816       1,461,388        (63,428)
                                                3.3 Operations and Maintenance                                           697,364                -              -          697,364         737,207         39,843
                                                3.4 Transportation                                                       492,731                -              -          492,731         439,707        (53,024)
                                                3.5 Governance and Administration                                        275,900                -              -          275,900         294,439         18,539
                                                                                                                       5,044,724                -              -        5,044,724       5,028,956        (15,768)

                                            4   Accredited Private Schools and Early Childhood Service Operators
                                                4.1 Accredited Private Schools Support                                  255,194                 -              -         255,194         276,643         21,449
                                                4.2 Accredited Private Early Childhood Service Operators Support        152,963                 -              -         152,963         143,328         (9,635)
                                                                                                                        408,157                 -              -         408,157         419,971         11,814

                                            5   School Facilities
                                                5.1 School Facilities Infrastructure                                      1,000                 -              -           1,000           1,000               -
                                                                                                                          1,000                 -              -           1,000           1,000               -

                                            Capital Grants
                                            5 School Facilities
                                               5.1 School Facilities Infrastructure                                      26,077                 -              -          26,077           9,305         (16,772)
                                                                                                                         26,077                 -              -          26,077           9,305         (16,772)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FINANCIAL INFORMATION




 105
                                        Lapse/Encumbrance (unaudited) (continued)




 106
                                        Lapse/Encumbrance (unaudited) (continued)
                                        Department of Education
                                        Department     of Education
                                        Year ended March     31, 2025
                                        Year   Ended March 31, 2025
                                        (in thousands)
                                        (in thousands)

                                                                                                                                            Adjusted                        Over
                                                                                               Voted        Supplementary                    Voted         Voted          Expended
                                                                                                                                                                                        FINANCIAL INFORMATION




                                                                                             Estimate (1)    Estimate (2) Adjustments (3)   Estimate      Actuals (4)   (Unexpended)

                                            Capital Payments to Related Parties
                                            5 School Facilities
                                               5.1 School Facilities Infrastructure              155,969                  -            -        155,969       160,790         4,821
                                                                                                 155,969                  -            -        155,969       160,790         4,821

                                            Debt Servicing
                                            5 School Facilities
                                               5.2 Alberta Schools Alternative Procurement        26,889                  -            -       26,889      33,279               6,390
                                            Total                                              5,757,668                  -            -    5,757,668   5,746,072            (11,596)
                                            Credit or Recovery (Shortfall)                             -                  -       (3,251)      (3,251)          -               3,251
                                                                                             $ 5,757,668    $             -   $   (3,251) $ 5,754,417 $ 5,746,072 $           (8,345)
                                            (Lapse)/Encumbrance                                                                                                   $           (8,345)

                                        CAPITAL INVESTMENT VOTE BY PROGRAM
                                            2 Education System Support                       $        565   $         -       $       90    $      655    $       463 $        (192)
                                            Total                                            $        565   $         -       $       90    $      655    $       463 $        (192)
                                            (Lapse)/Encumbrance                                                                                                       $        (192)

                                        FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS VOTE BY PROGRAM
                                            5 School Facilities
                                               5.2 Alberta Schools Alternative Procurement   $    22,179    $             -   $        -    $    22,179   $    15,872 $      (6,307)
                                            Total                                            $    22,179    $             -   $        -    $    22,179   $    15,872 $      (6,307)
                                            (Lapse)/Encumbrance                                                                                                       $      (6,307)




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
Classification: Protected A
                                        Lapse/Encumbrance (unaudited) (continued)
                                        Department of Education
                                        Lapse/Encumbrance (unaudited) (continued)
                                        Year ended March 31, 2025
                                        Department
                                        (in thousands)of Education
                                        Year Ended March 31, 2025
                                        (in thousands)
                                                                                                                                                                             Adjusted                          Over
                                                                                                                          Voted            Supplementary                       Voted          Voted          Expended
                                                                                                                        Estimate (1)         Estimate (2) Adjustments (3)    Estimate        Actuals (4)   (Unexpended)

                                        CONTINGENCY VOTE BY PROGRAM
                                           1 Ministry Support Services




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                              1.1 Minister's Office                                                     $            -      $           -   $           8   $           8   $          8   $             -
                                              1.2 Deputy Minister's Office                                                           -                  -              11              11             11                 -
                                              1.3 Corporate Services                                                                 -                  -              50              50             50                 -

                                             2    Education System Support                                                             -                -             631            631             631                 -

                                             3   Operating Support for School Jurisdictions
                                                 3.1 Base Funding                                                                    -                  -        187,900         187,900        187,900                  -
                                                 3.2 Learning Support Funding                                                        -                  -          3,400           3,400          3,400                  -
                                                 3.3 Operations and Maintenance                                                      -                  -            800             800            800                  -

                                             4   Accredited Private Schools and Early Childhood Service Operators
                                                4.1 Accredited Private Schools Support                                               -                  -          6,546           6,546          6,546                  -
                                                4.2 Accredited Private Early Childhood Service Operators Support                     -                  -          2,300           2,300          2,300                  -
                                             Total                                                                $                  -      $           -   $    201,646    $    201,646    $   201,646     $            -
                                             (Lapse)/Encumbrance                                                                                                                                            $            -


                                            (1) As per "Expense Vote by Program", "Capital Investment Vote by Program" and "Financial Transactions Vote by Program" page 67 to 74 of the 2024-25 Government Estimates.
                                            (2) Per the supplementary Supply Estimates approved on March 20, 2025.
                                            (3) Adjustments include encumbrances, capital carry over amounts, transfers between votes, credit or recovery increases approved by Treasury Board, and credit or recovery
                                                shortfalls. An encumbrance is incurred when, on a vote-by-vote basis, the total of actual disbursements in the prior year exceed the total adjusted estimate. All calculated
                                                encumbrances from the prior year are reflected as an adjustment to reduce the corresponding voted estimate in the current year. Adjustments also include supply vote
                                                transfers for "Contingency" as approved by the Lieutenant Governor in Council under the direction of the Minister of Finance. The Contingency supply vote consists of a
                                                provisional funding authority transferable to any ministry. Upon approval by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the President of Treasury Board and Minister of Finance may
                                                either spend or transfer all or a portion of this supply vote to another Minister for public emergencies, disasters or unanticipated costs. As per Order in Council (OC) 058/2025,
                                                contingency funding of $201,646 was approved for the purposes of Operating Support for School Jurisdictions, Accredited Private Schools and Early Childhood Service
                                                Operators, and public service compensation related to collective bargaining.
                                            (4) Actuals exclude non-voted amounts as no cash disbursement is required (non-cash amounts), or because the Legislative Assembly has already provided the funding authority
                                                pursuant to a statute other than an appropriation act. Non-cash amounts (such as amortization, valuation adjustments, and other provisions). are excluded as these amounts
                                                do not require any expenditure or payment of public money. Year-end expense accruals & payables which will immediately require a cash outlay (payment of public money) to
                                                settle or otherwise extinguish the liabilities are included in Actuals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FINANCIAL INFORMATION




 107
Classification: Protected A
            FINANCIAL INFORMATION

           Ministry of Education
           Ministry
           School       of Education
                   jurisdictions adjusted accumulated reserves from operations (ASO) and capital reserves
           (in thousands)
            School Jurisdictions adjusted accumulated reserves from operations (ASO) and
            capital reserves (in thousands)

                                                                            2023
                                                        2024              Restated              Change
            Operating Reserves                     $     301,135        $    334,495        $     (33,360)
            Capital Reserves                       $     301,855        $    290,086        $      11,769
                                                   $     602,990        $    624,581        $     (21,591)


               School jurisdictions’ ASO, also referred to as operating reserves decreased by $33.4 million, or 10.0
            • School  jurisdictions’ ASO, also referred to as operating reserves decreased by $33.4 million, or 10.0 per cent,
              per cent, from $334.5 million in the 2022-23 (restated) school year to $301.1 million in the 2023-24
              from
              school$334.5
                     year. million in the 2022-23 (restated) school year to $301.1 million in the 2023-24 school year.
            • School jurisdictions’ capital reserves have increased by $11.8 million, or 4.1 per cent, from $290.1 million in
             School jurisdictions’ capital reserves have increased by $11.8 million, or 4.1 per cent, from $290.1
              2022-23    (restated) to $301.9 million in 2023-24.
              million in 2022-23 (restated) to $301.9 million in 2023-24.
            • Section 143 of the Education Act requires accumulated capital reserves to be used for capital expenditures
             Section
              only.   143 of the
                    Transfers    Education
                              from         Act requires
                                   capital reserves     accumulated
                                                    to cover         capital
                                                             operations      reserves
                                                                        are not       to be used
                                                                                 permitted       for capital
                                                                                            without   prior ministerial approval.
                expenditures only. Transfers from capital reserves to cover operations are not permitted without prior
           • To   ensure approval.
             ministerial that students benefit from grant funding being spent in the classroom in the year it is received,
             there is a maximum operating reserve limit. Any operating reserve balance held over the maximum limit
             To ensure
            based       thatAugust
                     on the   students
                                     31,benefit
                                          2025from    grantfinancial
                                                 audited     funding being  spent inwill
                                                                      information          classroom
                                                                                     the have          in the
                                                                                                 funding              is an equivalent
                                                                                                              year it by
                                                                                                           reduced
             received,  there is a  maximum    operating reserve   limit. Any operating  reserve   balance
             amount in the following school year. The Minister may grant an exemption to the maximum        held over   the limit if a request
             maximum limit based on the August 31, 2025 audited financial information will have funding reduced
             isbymade  following
                 an equivalent     the criteria
                                amount   in the outlined  in the Funding
                                                following school  year. TheManual
                                                                              Minister for
                                                                                        mayschool
                                                                                              grantauthorities 2024/25
                                                                                                    an exemption   to the school year.
             maximum limit
           • Operating       if a request
                         reserves          is made
                                    are a key       following
                                               financial  healththeindicator
                                                                     criteria outlined in the
                                                                               of school      Funding Manual
                                                                                           jurisdictions.       for school
                                                                                                           Reserves  are reviewed and
             authorities 2024/25 school year.
             monitored by Alberta Education during the annual review processes of the Spring Budget Report and
             Audited Financial Statements. The Financial Reporting and Accountability branch examines, based on
            Operating reserves are a key financial health indicator of school jurisdictions. Reserves are reviewed
             developed   criteria,
             and monitored         the reasonability
                             by Alberta                 of thethe
                                          Education during      school
                                                                   annual jurisdictions’  operating
                                                                            review processes    of thereserve
                                                                                                        Springbalances  as a per cent of the
                                                                                                               Budget Report
             and Audited
             annual       Financial
                     operating        Statements. The Financial Reporting and Accountability branch examines,
                                  expenditures.
                based on developed criteria, the reasonability of the school jurisdictions’ operating reserve balances
           • When
             as a peroperating   reserves
                       cent of the annualfor  a school
                                           operating    jurisdiction are below zero, they are considered to be in an accumulated
                                                     expenditures.
             deficit from operations position and an approved Deficit Elimination Plan is required. For the year ending
            August   31, 2024,
             When operating       three school
                                reserves        jurisdictions
                                         for a school           hadare
                                                      jurisdiction  anbelow
                                                                       accumulated   deficit
                                                                            zero, they       from operations.
                                                                                       are considered to be in an
                accumulated deficit from operations position and an approved Deficit Elimination Plan is required. For
                the year ending August 31, 2024, three school jurisdictions had an accumulated deficit from
                operations.




Classification:
             108Protected A                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                                              FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Financial Statements of Other Reporting Entities

Alberta School Foundation Fund

Financial Statements
March 31, 2025

Independent Auditor’s Report .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 110
Statement of Operations. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 113
Statement of Financial Position.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Statement of Change in Net Financial Assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Statement of Cash Flows .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 116
Notes to the Financial Statements .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 117




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                           109
FINANCIAL INFORMATION




Independent Auditor’s
Independent  Auditor’sReport
                       Report


To the Minister of Education and Childcare


Report on the Financial Statements

Opinion
I have audited the financial statements of the Alberta School Foundation Fund (the Fund), which
comprise the statement of financial position as at March 31, 2025, and the statements of operations,
change in net financial assets, and cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.

In my opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of the Fund as at March 31, 2025, and the results of its operations, its changes in
net financial assets, and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Canadian public
sector accounting standards.

Basis for opinion
I conducted my audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards. My
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities for the
Audit of the Financial Statements section of my report. I am independent of the Fund in accordance
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to my audit of the financial statements in Canada,
and I have fulfilled my other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. I believe
that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my
opinion.

Other information
Management is responsible for the other information. The financial statements of the Fund are
included in the Annual Report of the Ministry of Education. The other information comprises the
information included in the Annual Report of the Ministry of Education relating to the Fund, but does
not include the financial statements of the Fund and my auditor's report thereon. The Annual
Report of the Ministry of Education is expected to be made available to me after the date of this
auditor’s report.

My opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and I do not express
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with my audit of the financial statements, my responsibility is to read the other
information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or my knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.

If, based on the work I will perform on this other information, I conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, I am required to communicate the matter to those charged
with governance.


110                                                                     Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                            FINANCIAL INFORMATION


            Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for the financial
            statements
            Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in
            accordance with Canadian public sector accounting standards, and for such internal control as
            management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are
            free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

            In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Fund’s ability to
            continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using
            the going concern basis of accounting unless an intention exists to liquidate or to cease operations,
            or there is no realistic alternative but to do so.

            Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Fund’s financial reporting
            process.

            Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
            My objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a
            whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's
            report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
            guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing
            standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
            fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
            be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
            statements.

            As part of an audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards, I exercise
            professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. I also:
             Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due
                to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain
                audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of
                not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
                error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
                override of internal control.
             Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
                procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
                opinion on the effectiveness of the Fund's internal control.
             Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
                estimates and related disclosures made by management.
             Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting
                and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to
                events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Fund’s ability to continue as a going
                concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my
                auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are
                inadequate, to modify my opinion. My conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up
                to the date of my auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Fund to
                cease to continue as a going concern.
             Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including
                the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions
                and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.




             Education
Classification:        | Annual
                Protected   A Report 2024 – 2025                                                                111
            FINANCIAL INFORMATION



            I communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned
            scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in
            internal control that I identify during my audit.




            [Original signed by W. Doug Wylie FCPA, FCMA, ICD.D]
            Auditor General

            June 4, 2025
            Edmonton, Alberta




Classification: Protected A
            112                                                                     Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                  FINANCIAL INFORMATION



            Alberta School Foundation Fund
            ALBERTA SCHOOL FOUNDATION FUND
            STATEMENT  OFOperations
            Statement of  OPERATIONS
            YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
            Year Ended March 31, 2025

                                                                                   2025                     2024
                                                                    Budget
                                                                   (Note 10)               Actual          Actual
                                                                                     (in thousands)
            Revenues (Note 2(b))
              Education property tax                           $     2,472,114        $    2,537,466   $     2,286,125
              Investment income (Note 2(b))                                300                   782               685
                                                                     2,472,414             2,538,248         2,286,810
            Expenses (Note 2(b))
              Programs
                Payments to school boards                            2,457,489             2,478,735         2,269,397
                Bad debt expense                                           425                   469               132
              Debt Servicing
                Interest and bank charges                               14,500                12,330            14,448
                                                                     2,472,414             2,491,534         2,283,977

            Annual surplus                                                     -              46,714               2,833

            Accumulated surplus at beginning of year                    56,422                56,422           53,589

            Accumulated surplus at end of year                 $        56,422        $      103,136   $       56,422




            The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.




Classification: Protected A
            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                     113
            FINANCIAL INFORMATION



            Alberta School Foundation Fund
            ALBERTA SCHOOL FOUNDATION FUND
            STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
            AS AT MARCH
            Statement of 31, 2025
                          Financial Position
            As at March 31, 2025

                                                                                 2025              2024
                                                                                     (in thousands)
            Financial assets
               Cash and cash equivalents (Note 4)                            $     107,918      $          58,680
               Accounts receivable (Note 5)                                             84                    157
                                                                                   108,002                 58,837
            Liabilities
               Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities (Note 7)               4,866                  2,415
                                                                                     4,866                  2,415
            Net financial assets/Net assets                                  $     103,136      $          56,422

            Net assets
            Accumulated surplus                                              $     103,136      $          56,422
                                                                             $     103,136      $          56,422

            Contingent liabilities are presented in Note 8.

            The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.




Classification: Protected A
            114                                                                  Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                    FINANCIAL INFORMATION



            Alberta School Foundation Fund
            ALBERTA SCHOOL FOUNDATION FUND
            STATEMENTof
            Statement OFChange
                         CHANGEinINNet
                                    NETFinancial
                                        FINANCIAL ASSETS
                                                 Assets
            YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
            Year Ended March 31, 2025

                                                                                 2025                        2024
                                                                 Budget
                                                                (Note 10)                Actual              Actual
                                                                                   (in thousands)

            Annual surplus                                  $                -      $       46,714      $           2,833
            Increase in net financial assets                $                -      $       46,714      $           2,833
            Net financial assets at beginning of year                                       56,422                 53,589
            Net financial assets at end of year                                     $      103,136      $          56,422



            The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.




Classification: Protected
             Education     A Report 2024 – 2025
                       | Annual                                                                                        115
            FINANCIAL INFORMATION



            Alberta School Foundation Fund
            ALBERTA SCHOOL FOUNDATION FUND
            STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
            Statement of Cash Flows
            YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
            Year Ended March 31, 2025

                                                                                 2025              2024
                                                                                     (in thousands)
            Operating transactions
               Annual surplus                                                $       46,714      $            2,833
               Decrease/(Increase) in accounts receivable                                73                     (82)
               Increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities             2,451                     302
            Cash provided by operating transactions                                  49,238                   3,053

            Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                           58,680                 55,627

            Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                         $     107,918       $          58,680



            The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.




            116                                                                  Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
Classification: Protected A
                                                                                      FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Alberta School Foundation Fund

Notes to the Financial Statements
ALBERTA SCHOOL FOUNDATION FUND
NOTES
March  TO
      31,  THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
          2025
MARCH 31, 2025

Note 1      Authority

            The Alberta School Foundation Fund (the Fund) operates under the authority of the Education
            Act, Statutes of Alberta 2012, Chapter E-0.3.

            The Fund makes requisitions to municipalities based on the equalized assessment of real
            property in Alberta and mill rates established by the Lieutenant Governor in Council. The
            purpose of the Fund is to provide funding to school boards based on an equal amount per
            eligible student. The Fund is exempt from income taxes under the Income Tax Act.

Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices

            These financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian Public Sector
            Accounting Standards.

            (a) Reporting Entity

            The reporting entity is the Fund, which is part of the Ministry of Education and for which the
            Minister of Education is accountable.

            (b) Basis of Financial Reporting

            Revenues

            Revenue earned from Education property tax to be collected (or the requisition amount) is
            based on 29.54 per cent (2024: 28.30 per cent) of the total budgeted operating expense of the
            education system. All revenues are reported on the accrual basis of accounting. The amount
            for the property tax relief programs is deducted against education property tax revenue.

            Revenues from transactions with performance obligations are recognized when the Fund
            provides the promised goods and/or services to the payor. Revenues from transactions with no
            performance obligations are recognized at their realizable value when the Fund has the
            authority to claim or retain an inflow of economic resources and identifies a past transaction or
            event that gives rise to an asset.

            Investment income
            Investment income includes the interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents and is
            recognized in the period in which income is earned.

            Expenses

            Expenses are reported on an accrual basis. Expenses are those costs for which the Fund has
            primary responsibility and accountability, as reflected in the Government’s budget documents.



Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                       117
FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Alberta School Foundation Fund
ALBERTA
Notes    SCHOOL
      to the     FOUNDATION
             Financial        FUND
                       Statements (continued)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
March
MARCH 31,
       31,2025
           2025


Note 2   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)

         (b) Basis of Financial Reporting (continued)

         Expenses (continued)
         (in thousands)

         Opted out separate school boards which have passed a resolution pursuant to Section 164(2)
         of the Education Act have the authority to requisition and collect levies from municipalities on
         their declared residential and non-residential property at a rate not less than the provincial rate
         applied in that municipality. As a result, these boards participate partially in the Fund.

         Payments to school boards include $450,193 (2024: $407,233) paid to opted out separate
         school boards to increase their funding to a level the boards would otherwise receive if
         participating partially in the Fund.

         Bad Debt Expense

         The Minister approved the non-payment of property tax in the amount of $469 (2024: $132) for
         the County of Minburn on December 2, 2024, pursuant to section 167(11) of the Education Act.

         Valuation of Financial Assets and Liabilities

         The organization’s financial assets and liabilities are generally measured as follows:

          Financial Statement Component                      Measurement
          Cash and cash equivalents                          Cost
          Accounts receivable                                Lower of cost or net recoverable value
          Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities     Cost

         Financial Assets

         Financial assets are assets that could be used to discharge existing liabilities or finance future
         operations and are not for consumption in the normal course of operations. Financial assets are
         the Fund’s financial claims on external organizations and individuals as well as cash at year
         end.

         Accounts receivable

         Accounts receivable are recognized at the lower of cost or net recoverable value. A valuation
         allowance is recognized when recovery is uncertain.




118                                                                        Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                       FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Alberta School Foundation Fund

ALBERTA
Notes     SCHOOL
      to the      FOUNDATION
             Financial        FUND
                       Statements (continued)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
March
MARCH 31,31,
          2025
             2025


Note 2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Reporting Practices (continued)

           (b) Basis of Financial Reporting (continued)

            Liabilities

            Liabilities are present obligations of the Fund to external organizations and individuals arising
            from past transactions or events occurring before year end, the settlement of which is expected
            to result in the future sacrifice of economic benefits. They are recognized when there is an
            appropriate basis of measurement and management can reasonably estimate the amounts.


            Net Assets

            Net assets represents the difference between the carrying value of assets held by the Fund and
            its liabilities. Net assets are restricted by section 169(2) of the Education Act in that money in
            the Fund is payable only to school boards except when a payment to General Revenues is
            required to repay advances and make interest payments, or to refund municipalities for
            overpayments made to the Fund.


            Financial Instruments

            Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts
            payable and other accrued liabilities. All financial instruments are recorded at cost or carrying
            value. Interests attributable to financial instruments are reported in the statement of operations.

            The Fund does not have any transactions involving financial instruments that are in the fair
            value category and has no foreign currency transactions and thus no remeasurement gains and
            losses, and therefore no statement of remeasurement gains or losses is included in these
            financial statements.

            Measurement Uncertainty

            Measurement uncertainty exists when there is a variance between the recognized or disclosed
            amount and another reasonably possible amount (see Note 5, 7 and 8).


Note 3 Future Changes in Accounting Standards

           On April 1, 2026, the Fund will adopt the following new conceptual framework and accounting
           standard approved by the Public Sector Accounting Board:




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                      119
           FINANCIAL INFORMATION



           Alberta School Foundation Fund
           ALBERTA SCHOOL FOUNDATION FUND
           Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
           March
           MARCH 31,31,
                     2025
                        2025


            Note 3 Future Changes in Accounting Standards (continued)

                         The Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting in the Public Sector
                          The Conceptual Framework is the foundation for public sector financial reporting standard
                          setting. It replaces the conceptual aspects of Section PS 1000 Financial Statement
                          Concepts and Section PS 1100 Financial Statement Objectives. The conceptual framework
                          highlights considerations fundamental for the consistent application of accounting issues in
                          the absence of specific standards.

                         PS 1202 Financial Statement Presentation
                          Section PS 1202 sets out general and specific requirements for the presentation of
                          information in general purpose financial statements. The financial statement presentation
                          principles are based on the concepts within the Conceptual Framework.

                      Management is currently assessing the impact of the conceptual framework and the standard
                      on the financial statements.


            Note 4    Cash and Cash Equivalents

                      Cash and cash equivalents are comprised of deposits in Consolidated Liquidity Solution (CLS).
                      A CLS participant is paid interest on monthly basis on their cash balance at an interest rate
                      based on 12 week rolling average of the Province’s 3 month cost of borrowing.


            Note 5     Accounts Receivable
                      (in thousands)

                      Accounts receivable are unsecured and non-interest bearing.

                                                                                2025                            2024
                                                                            Allowance for         Net            Net
                                                                 Gross         doubtful       recoverable    recoverable
                                                                 amount        accounts          value          value

                       Requisitions from municipalities      $      4,394    $      (4,376)   $        18    $        109
                       Interest receivable                             66                -             66              48
                                                             $      4,460    $      (4,376)   $        84    $        157

            Note 6     Related Party Transactions
                      (in thousands)

                      Operating costs incurred in the administration of the Fund borne by other ministries are not
                      reflected in these financial statements. The Fund is prohibited from paying administration costs
                      under section 169(3) of the Education Act.


           120                                                                        Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025

Classification: Protected A
                                                                                                      FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Alberta School Foundation Fund

ALBERTA
Notes     SCHOOL
      to the      FOUNDATION
             Financial        FUND
                       Statements (continued)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
March
MARCH 31,31,
          2025
             2025


Note 6       Related Party Transactions (continued)
            (in thousands)

            Under the provisions of the Financial Administration Act, the Fund receives monthly advances
            from General Revenues to make payments to school boards in accordance with section 169(2)
            of the Education Act. The Fund repays the advances quarterly throughout the year as monies
            are received from municipalities and opted out separate school boards. The Fund pays interest
            on the advances at an average rate of 3.97 per cent (2024: 5.26 per cent). Interest is calculated
            on a pro rata basis for the number of days the advances are out.

            The Fund earns interest on the daily closing cash balance, and interest is paid monthly by
            Treasury Board and Finance through General Revenue Fund (GRF).

            The Fund distributes monies to school boards based on an equal amount per eligible student.

            The following describes the related party transactions of the Fund:

                                                                                 2025                    2024


            Interes t income                                                $            780      $             681
            Expens es

                            Payments to school boards (a)                         2,472,579               2,263,422
                            Interes t on advances from
                                general revenue                                       12,330                 14,448
                                                                            $     2,484,909       $       2,277,870


            Receivables (b)                                                 $                66   $               48


            (a)   These amounts do not include net payments to the two school boards in Lloydminster, Saskatchewan totaling
                  $6,156 (2024: $5,975), as they are not related parties.
            (b)   This amount is an interest due from Treasury Board and Finance (Note 5).



Note 7       Accounts Payable and Other Accrued Liabilities
            (in thousands)

            Accrued Liabilities

            (a) In November 2017, the Provincial Education Requisition Credit (PERC) program was
            created to provide hardship relief for municipalities across Alberta who are unable to collect
            education property taxes owing on delinquent oil and gas properties.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                        121
           FINANCIAL INFORMATION



           Alberta School Foundation Fund
           ALBERTA SCHOOL FOUNDATION FUND
           Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
           March
           MARCH 31, 2025
                   31, 2025


            Note 7     Accounts Payable and Other Accrued Liabilities (continued)
                      (in thousands)

                      Accrued Liabilities (continued)

                      (a) (continued)

                      The property tax relief program is retroactive to the 2015 tax year and was to be in place until
                      2019 but has been extended to the 2025 tax year in accordance with Section 167 (11) of the
                      Education Act. The Minister of Education approved the recommendation from Municipal Affairs
                      to approve 44 (2024: 34) municipalities’ PERC applications for a total PERC claim of $4,289
                      (2024: $1,799). The approved claim amount was adjusted to reflect $0 (2024: $234) certain
                      municipalities repayment of past PERC claims. The total program maximum is $3,000 (2024:
                      $15,000) per application year. The PERC claims for 2025 exceeded the maximum amount and
                      the overage is funded through net assets. Tax relief payments were not provided during the
                      fiscal year so were accrued to be applied in June 2025 invoices.

                      (b) If it is determined that a municipality has paid an amount into the Fund in excess of the sum
                      that is required to be paid, the Minister of Education may order the repayment of the excess to
                      the municipality. The amount required to be paid is equivalent to the sum of the applicable
                      education property tax rates applied to the equalized assessment of the municipality for
                      residential and farm land, non-residential property and machinery and equipment. At March 31,
                      2025 an amount of $0 was owed to a municipality (2024: $185).

                      The Fund has recorded an allowance for assessment adjustments and appeals of $442 (2024:
                      $196). The allowance is based on a 5 year average of prior year refunds and adjustments at
                      March 31, 2025.


            Note 8    Contingent Liabilities

                      Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that may result in the future sacrifice of
                      economic benefits arising from existing conditions or situations involving uncertainty.

                      The Fund is not involved in any legal matters where damages are being sought.


            Note 9    Financial Risk Management

                      The Fund has the following instruments: cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable,
                      accounts payable and other accrued liabilities.

                      The Fund is not exposed to any significant risks (interest, liquidity and credit) associated with its
                      use of financial instruments.




           122                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025

Classification: Protected A
                                                                                                    FINANCIAL INFORMATION



           Alberta School Foundation Fund
           ALBERTA SCHOOL FOUNDATION FUND
           Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
           March
           MARCH 31,
                  31,2025
                      2025


            Note 9     Financial Risk Management (continued)

                       (a) Interest Rate Risk
                       Interest rate risk is the risk that rate of return and future cash flows of the Fund’s cash and cash
                       equivalents held in the bank account will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
                       As the Fund holds bank deposits that are interest bearing and accrued liabilities which are non-
                       interest bearing, the Fund is not exposed to significant interest rate risk relating to its financial
                       assets and liabilities.

                       (b) Liquidity Risk
                       Liquidity risk is the risk that the Fund will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated
                       with financial liabilities. Before collecting quarterly taxes, the Fund borrows money in order to
                       make monthly payments to school boards. Once the taxes are collected, the borrowed money
                       is repaid. Liquidity risk is measured by reviewing the Fund’s future net cash flows for the
                       possibility of negative net cash flow. The Fund manages the liquidity risk resulting from its
                       accounts payable obligations by maintaining cash and cash equivalents resources in interest
                       bearing bank deposits.

                       (c) Credit Risk
                       Counterparty credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the failure of a counterparty to fully
                       honour its financial obligations with the Fund. The Fund is not exposed to any significant credit
                       risk from potential non-payment of accounts receivable.


            Note 10 Budget

                       The budget amounts in these financial statements are taken from the 2024/2025 Government
                       Estimates approved on March 28, 2024.


            Note 11 Approval of Financial Statements

                       The deputy minister and the senior financial officer approved these financial statements.




            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                        123

Classification: Protected A
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Other Financial Information

Table of Contents

      Ministry Funding Provided to School Jurisdictions - Unaudited. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 125
      Statement of Remissions, Compromises, and Write-Offs - Unaudited. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
      Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Financial Information  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130
      Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements of Financial Position
         and Net Assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
      Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements of Operations
         and Changes in Financial Position. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152
      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 173
      Disclosure of Salaries and Benefits for Superintendent Positions - Unaudited.  .  . 174
      Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund Board. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 176




124                                                                                                                  Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                               OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



            Ministry
            Ministry Funding
                     Funding Provided
                             Provided to
                                      to School
                                         School Jurisdictions
                                                Jurisdictions –- Unaudited
                                                                 Unaudited


            Year ended March 31, 2025
            Year ended March 31, 2025

                                                                                           (in thousands)
                                                                               School        Provincial Opted-Out
                                                          Funding            Facilities      and Other    Separate         Pension          Ministry
                                                       Fram ework       Infrastructure        Initiatives  Boards            Costs            Total
                                                               (a)(f)                (b)            (c)              (d)        (e)

            School Jurisdictions Funding
            The Aspen View School Division             $    36,846      $        491       $    1,082     $          - $    1,564     $     39,983
            The Battle River School Division                68,702             1,210            3,203                -      3,155           76,270
            The Black Gold School Division                 134,091             2,701            2,229                -      6,617          145,638
            The Buffalo Trail School Division               49,762               826              611                -      2,048           53,247
            The Calgary Roman Catholic Separate            601,638            13,096            4,800         (107,509)    29,335          541,360
              School Division
            The Calgary School Division                  1,379,761            23,506           10,967                -     68,367         1,482,601
            The Canadian Rockies                            23,356               320              423                -      1,353            25,452
              School Division
            The Chinook's Edge School Division             119,386             4,347            2,155                -      5,192          131,080
            The Christ the Redeemer Catholic Separate       96,970             1,135            1,329           (7,332)     4,571           96,673
              School Division
            The Clearview School Division                   32,706               477            1,228                -      1,331           35,742
            The East Central Alberta Catholic Separate      21,910               273              279           (1,473)     1,100           22,089
              School Division
            The East Central Francophone                    14,184               131             952                 -        622           15,889
              Education Region
            The Edmonton Catholic Separate                 491,488             7,478            6,452         (64,527)     22,063          462,954
              School Division
            The Edmonton School Division                 1,163,828            17,924           14,911               -      51,615         1,248,278
            The Elk Island Catholic Separate                71,010             1,121              574         (10,757)      3,141            65,089
              School Division
            The Elk Island School Division                 185,171             2,844            2,557                -      8,254          198,826
            The Evergreen Catholic Separate                 40,617               656              539           (7,374)     2,054           36,492
              School Division
            The Foothills School Division                   84,398             1,280            1,831                -      3,997           91,506
            The Fort McMurray School Division               93,923             1,110              642                -      3,750           99,425
            The Fort McMurray Roman Catholic Separate       83,327             1,009            1,119           (4,385)     3,367           84,437
              School Division
            The Fort Vermillion School Division             46,246               564            1,037                -      1,970           49,817
            The Golden Hills School Division                79,065             1,055              339                -      3,747           84,206
            The Grande Prairie Roman Catholic Separa        61,434               855              441           (5,293)     2,714           60,151
              School Division
            The Grande Prairie School Division              94,998             1,288            1,108                -      4,523          101,917
            The Grande YellowheadSchool Division            55,940               882            5,338                -      2,246           64,406
            The Grasslands Regional Division                44,083               588              159                -      1,991           46,821
            The Greater North Central Francophone           64,007               619            5,445                -      2,659           72,730
              Education Region
            The Greater St. Albert Rom an Catholic          58,009             1,025            2,342           (8,971)     2,701           55,106
              Separate School Division




Classification: Protected
             Education     A Report 2024 – 2025
                       | Annual                                                                                                                 125
            OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION


            Ministry
            Ministry Funding
                     Funding Provided
                             Provided to
                                      to School
                                         School Jurisdictions
                                                Jurisdictions –- Unaudited
                                                                 Unaudited
            (continued)
            (continued)
            Year ended March 31, 2025
            Year ended March 31, 2025

            Year ended March 31, 2025                                                    (in thousands)
                                                                             School        Provincial Opted-Out
                                                         Funding           Facilities      and Other    Separate       Pension         Ministry
                                                      Fram ework      Infrastructure        Initiatives  Boards          Costs           Total
                                                             (a)(f)                (b)            (c)            (d)         (e)

            School Jurisdictions Funding (continued)
            The High Prairie School Division         $    38,863      $        549       $     278      $        - $    1,718      $    41,408
            The Holy Family Catholic Separate             23,907               338           1,590          (1,607)     1,223           25,451
              School Division
            The Holy Spirit Rom an Catholic Separate      56,651               945             701          (7,199)     2,630           53,728
              School Division
            The Horizon School Division                   45,390               613             965               -      1,890           48,858
            The Lakeland Roman Catholic Separate          34,025               427             916          (3,365)     1,537           33,540
              School Division
            The Lethbridge School Division               125,335             2,011           1,441               -      6,114          134,901
            The Living Waters Catholic Separate           20,837               304           3,489          (1,134)       878           24,374
              School Division
            The Livingstone Range School Division         45,582             6,279             702               -      2,014           54,577
            The Medicine Hat Roman Catholic Separate      31,377               561             147          (4,608)     1,413           28,890
              School Division
            The Medicine Hat School Division              75,776             1,110           1,789               -      3,712           82,387
            The Northern Gateway Regional Division        60,353               852           1,966               -      2,414           65,585
            The Northern Lights School Division           72,438             1,043           2,089               -      3,149           78,719
            The Northland School Division                 37,430               311           2,956               -      1,327           42,024
            The Northwest Francophone                      9,289               129           2,647               -        424           12,489
              Education Region
            The Palliser School Division                  96,428             6,697           1,833               -      4,854          109,812
            The Parkland School Division                 128,314             1,890           2,787               -      6,220          139,211
            The Peace River School Division               48,548               611             743               -      1,845           51,747
            The Peace Wapiti School Division              77,518             1,094           1,122               -      3,433           83,167
            The Pembina Hills Regional Division           57,812               690             450               -      2,398           61,350
            The Prairie Land School Division              35,934             1,319             167               -      1,519           38,939
            The Prairie Rose School Division              59,470               677             417               -      2,067           62,631
            The Red Deer Catholic Separate               100,643             1,410             475          (8,818)     4,871           98,581
              School Division
            The Red Deer School Division                 115,364             1,783           1,077               -      5,630          123,854
            The Rocky View School Division               276,325             3,693           2,149               -     13,389          295,556
            The St. Albert School Division                92,595             1,471             979               -      4,381           99,426
            The St. Paul Division                         40,451               641             333               -      2,032           43,457
            The St. Thomas Aquinas Rom an Catholic        47,424               657             606          (5,570)     2,216           45,333
              Separate School Division
            The Sturgeon School Division                  60,232               961           5,524               -      2,828           69,545
            The Southern Francophone                      54,237             1,033           3,994               -      2,572           61,836
              Education Region
            The Westwind School Division                  50,297              765              544               -      2,267           53,873
            The Wetaskiwin School Division                43,744              904              285               -      1,933           46,866
            The Wild Rose School Division                 54,884              772              870               -      2,359           58,885
            The Wolf Creek School Division                84,333            1,366              630               -      3,722           90,051
            Funding to School Jurisdictions          $ 7,498,662      $   132,717        $ 120,753      $ (249,922) $ 347,026      $ 7,849,236




Classification: Protected A
            126                                                                                          Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                              OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION


            Ministry
            Ministry Funding
                     Funding Provided
                             Provided to
                                       to School
                                          SchoolJurisdictions
                                                 Jurisdictions–-Unaudited
                                                                Unaudited
            (continued)
            (continued)

            Year ended March 31, 2025
            Year ended March 31, 2025

                                                                                           (in thousands)
                                                                               School        Provincial Opted-Out
                                                         Funding             Facilities      and Other    Separate          Pension            Ministry
                                                      Fram ework        Infrastructure        Initiatives  Boards             Costs              Total
                                                               (a)(f)                (b)            (c)           (d)            (e)

            Charter School Funding
            Almadina School Society                   $    15,939       $          -       $     245      $        -    $      668     $        16,852
            Alberta Classical Academ y Ltd.                10,884              5,255           2,312               -           496              18,947
            Aurora School Ltd.                             11,895                374           1,283               -           541              14,093
            Boyle Street Education Centre                   3,470                  -             589               -           118               4,177
            Calgary Arts Academ y Society                   5,880                363              16               -           247               6,506
            Calgary Girls' School Society                   5,436                366             129               -           286               6,217
            CAPE - Centre for Academ ic and                 3,171                 85              20               -           135               3,411
               Personal Excellence Institute
            Connect Charter School Society                  6,558                  -             401               -           359               7,318
            Footprints for Learning Society                 2,729                725               -               -            94               3,548
            Foundations for the Future Charter             39,678              7,281              96               -         1,988              49,043
              Academ y Charter School Society
            Fusion Education Association                      644                592               -               -            26               1,262
            Gwynne Valley Rural Education Association         864                350             215               -            26               1,455
            Holden Rural Academ y Society                   2,065                 92               2               -            51               2,210
            Mother Earth's Children's Charter                  98                  -              40               -            13                 151
              School Society
            New Horizons Charter School Society             4,272                  -              14               -           208               4,494
            New Hum ble Comm unity School                   1,912                  -              15               -            70               1,997
            Stem Collegiate Canada Society                  3,545                253           1,990               -           135               5,923
            Stem Innovation Academ y Society               11,061                  -             157               -           522              11,740
            Suzuki Charter School Society                   4,021                  -              33               -           184               4,238
            Thrive Charter School Society                   1,942                  -              27               -            75               2,044
            Valhalla School Foundation                      1,225                  -             183               -            36               1,444
            Westm ount Charter School Society              14,312                 30              47               -           759              15,148
            The WISE Charter Society                        1,214                595             657               -            53               2,519
            Funding to Charter Schools                $   152,815       $     16,361       $   8,471      $        -    $    7,090     $       184,737

            Total Funding to Related Parties         $ 7,651,477        $   149,078        $ 129,224      $ (249,922) $ 354,116        $ 8,033,973

            Non-Related Parties
            Lloydminster Public School Division      $     24,888       $      2,230       $     164      $   (8,687) $        457     $        19,052
            Lloydminster Roman Catholic Separate           17,310                215             394          (1,046)          264              17,137
              School Division
            Total Funding to Non-Related Parties     $     42,198       $      2,445       $     558      $   (9,733) $        721     $        36,189




            All Funded School Jurisdictions          $ 7,693,675        $   151,523        $ 129,782      $ (259,655) $ 354,837        $ 8,070,162




Classification: Protected A
            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                  127
           OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION


           Ministry Funding
           Ministry         Provided to
                    Funding Provided to School
                                        School Jurisdictions
                                               Jurisdictions –- Unaudited
                                                                Unaudited
           (continued)
           (continued)
           Year ended March 31, 2025
           Year ended March 31, 2025

           (a)   The Funding Framework includes grants outlined in Section C – “Funding for School Jurisdictions” of the Funding Manual for School
                 Authorities. This includes Base Instruction grants, Program Supports and Services grants, School-based grants, Community-based grants
                 and Jurisdiction-based grants. These amounts are reflected in funding profiles which are provided to school jurisdictions on an annual
                 basis.
           (b)   School Facilities Infrastructure consists of funding provided to school jurisdictions for school building capital projects. Operations and
                 Maintenance funding for school facilities is included under the Funding Framework.
           (c)   Provincial and Other Initiatives provide funding to school authorities for, but not limited to, Federal Language programs, curriculum
                 resource funding, dual credit funding, literacy and numeracy support, low incidence supports and services and mental health in schools
                 pilot grant.
           (d)   Opted-out separate school boards, which have passed a resolution pursuant to section 164(2) of the Education Act, have the authority
                 to requisition and collect from municipalities levies on their declared residential and non-residential property at a rate of not less than the
                 provincial rate applied in that municipality. These amounts collected from municipalities are shown as a reduction to funding from the
                 Ministry.
           (e)   Pension Costs are the cost of Ministry contributions for teachers of school jurisdictions and employer contributions for current service
                 employees during the fiscal year.
           (f)   The Funding Framework is supported by education property tax directly requisitioned by opted-out separate school boards from their
                 municipalities as shown in column d.




Classiﬁcation: Protected A
           128                                                                                                    Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                 OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



       Statement of Remissions, Compromises, and Write-Offs
       -Unaudited
         Unaudited Information
       Statement of Remissions, Compromises, and Write-Offs
       Year
       YearEnded
            EndedMarch 31, 31,
                   March   20252025

       The following statement has been prepared pursuant to Section 23 of the Financial Administration Act.
       This statement includes all remissions, compromises, and write-offs made or approved during the period.


                                                                                    (in thousands)
       Write-Offs

                                  Department Accounts Receivable                     $         -
                                  Alberta School Foundation Fund Accounts Receivable         469
                                  School Jurisdiction Accounts Receivable                    361

                                                       (1)
       Total remissions, compromises, and write-offs                                $        830

       (1) No remission or compromise expenses were incurred.




       Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                               129
#   Classification: Protected A
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Financial Information

(includes School Boards and Charter Schools)

Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements of Operations and Changes in Financial
Position
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Disclosure of Salaries and Benefits for Superintendent Positions


For additional information:
The audited financial statements of school jurisdictions are available on the Government of Alberta’s website
at https://www.alberta.ca/k-12-education-financial-statements.aspx/.


The Unaudited Summary reports of School Jurisdictions’ Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets and
School Jurisdictions’ Statements of Operations and Changes in Financial Position include draft reporting for
The Northlands School Division. The Division’s statements are in process and are not yet finalized.




130                                                                          Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                 OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                     (in dollars)



                                                                                           Alberta                                  The Aspen
                                                                                         Classical             Almadina                  View                 Aurora
                                                                                         Academy                 School                School                 School
                                                                                              Ltd.               Society              Division                  Ltd.
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                       $        1,147,395 $           1,554,146 $           6,911,745 $           6,359,385
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                               1,539,405               767,707               523,253                 81,726
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                       -           2,627,795                 65,092                      -
   Endowments                                                                                      -                     -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                             -                     -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                             -                     -                     -                     -
Total financial assets                                                          $        2,686,800 $           4,949,648 $           7,500,090 $           6,441,111

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                               $                 - $                   - $                   - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                2,447,871             1,052,816             1,585,052             1,453,100
Unspent deferred contributions                                                              42,057               528,384             1,576,890               338,943
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                             -                     -              306,578                      -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                        -                     -            2,425,223                      -
Other liabilities                                                                                 -                     -                     -                3,041
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                         -                     -                     -                     -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                    -                     -                     -                     -
                   Capital leases                                                           78,757                      -                     -               58,349
 Total liabilities                                                              $        2,568,685 $           1,581,200 $           5,893,743 $           1,853,433

 Net financial assets                                                           $          118,115 $           3,368,448 $           1,606,347 $           4,587,678

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                        $        8,342,827 $           6,298,886 $          69,772,280 $           4,215,120
Inventory of supplies                                                                             -                     -                     -                     -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                          291,123               194,639               234,083               277,290
Other non-financial assets                                                                        -                     -                     -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                     $        8,633,950 $           6,493,525 $          70,006,363 $           4,492,410

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                          $        8,752,065 $           9,861,973 $          71,612,710 $           9,080,088
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                     8,342,827             5,656,189            66,780,885             1,479,739
Net Assets                                                                      $          409,238 $           4,205,784 $           4,831,825 $           7,600,349

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                       $          409,238     $          15,087     $                -    $       2,806,173
     Total operating reserves                                                                     -              298,000             2,962,392             1,110,310
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                     $          409,238     $         313,087     $       2,962,392     $       3,916,483
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                        -              642,697               566,168             2,683,865
     Total capital reserves*                                                                      -            3,250,000             1,303,265             1,000,000
     Endowments                                                                                   -                     -                     -                     -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                 $          409,238     $       4,205,784     $       4,831,825     $       7,600,349
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                        -                     -                     -                     -
                                                                                $          409,238     $       4,205,784     $       4,831,825     $       7,600,349

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
 cannot bewithout
purposes    spent on operating
                   prior        purposes
                         ministerial      without prior ministerial approval.
                                     approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                       131
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)



                                                                                         The Battle             The Black                                  The Buffalo
                                                                                              River                  Gold            Boyle Street                 Trail
                                                                                            School                 School             Education                School
                                                                                           Division               Division                Centre              Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $         7,815,954 $           6,811,345 $               96,305 $           5,243,817
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 1,017,761             1,473,415                 42,978             1,609,295
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                               1,699,951            16,903,611              2,000,000                      -
   Endowments                                                                                       -                      -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $       10,533,666 $           25,188,371 $            2,139,283 $           6,853,112

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                 - $                    - $                   - $                    -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                 3,103,581              8,406,013               124,920              2,148,009
Unspent deferred contributions                                                            2,310,351              4,909,684                58,406              1,089,446
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                              -               318,700                16,800                       -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                               21,003,587              6,713,032                      -             1,813,840
Other liabilities                                                                                  -                      -                     -                      -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                          -                      -                     -                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                            2,000,560                       -                     -                      -
                   Capital leases                                                                  -                      -                     -                      -
 Total liabilities                                                               $       28,418,079 $           20,347,429 $             200,126 $            5,051,295

 Net financial assets                                                            $       (17,884,413) $          4,840,943 $            1,939,157 $           1,801,817

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $       83,108,639 $         199,380,705 $                12,630 $         51,483,696
Inventory of supplies                                                                       288,493               147,766                        -                    -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                         1,203,206               908,797                   9,978              344,424
Other non-financial assets                                                                         -                     -                       -                    -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $       84,600,338 $         200,437,268 $                22,608 $         51,828,120

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $       66,715,925 $         205,278,210 $             1,961,765 $         53,629,937
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                     57,796,650           187,771,782                        -          49,671,472
Net Assets                                                                       $        8,919,275 $          17,506,429 $             1,961,765 $          3,958,465

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $                  -   $          302,379     $          (50,865) $            456,160
     Total operating reserves                                                              5,890,269             7,082,001              2,000,000             3,087,868
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $         5,890,269    $        7,384,380     $        1,949,135 $           3,544,028
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                 2,282,290             4,896,154                 12,630                (1,609)
     Total capital reserves*                                                                 746,716             5,225,895                       -              416,046
     Endowments                                                                                     -                     -                      -                     -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $         8,919,275    $       17,506,429     $        1,961,765 $           3,958,465
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                     -                      -                     -
                                                                                 $         8,919,275    $       17,506,429     $        1,961,765 $           3,958,465

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




132                                                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                 OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements      of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                       (in dollars)

                                                                                                                                   The Calgary
                                                                                            Calgary               Calgary              Roman
                                                                                               Arts                 Girls'        Catholic Sep.           The Calgary
                                                                                           Academy                 School               School                 School
                                                                                            Society                Society             Division               Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $         1,586,255 $             615,008 $           93,654,576 $        195,638,000
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                    42,650               283,717             34,941,920            12,866,000
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                 745,228                       -                     -           12,970,000
   Endowments                                                                                        -                     -                     -           10,955,000
Inventories for resale                                                                               -                     -                     -                      -
Other financial assets                                                                               -                     -            2,319,517                       -
Total financial assets                                                           $         2,374,133 $             898,725 $          130,916,013    $     232,429,000

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                    - $                  -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  1,005,981               723,788             69,218,078          118,117,000
Unspent deferred contributions                                                               971,200                      -            12,365,983           28,364,000
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                               -                     -             7,912,806           24,292,000
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                          -                     -            44,415,803          151,548,000
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                      -                    -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                      -                    -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -                     -                      -                    -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -                     -                      -          11,311,000
 Total liabilities                                                               $         1,977,181 $             723,788 $          133,912,670 $        333,632,000

 Net financial assets                                                            $           396,952 $             174,937 $           (2,996,657) $       (101,203,000)

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $        10,708,621 $           3,632,706 $          630,257,333 $       1,429,125,000
Inventory of supplies                                                                               -                     -               309,913                      -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                            165,769                47,924              7,072,740            21,640,000
Other non-financial assets                                                                          -                     -                      -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $        10,874,390 $           3,680,630 $          637,639,986 $       1,450,765,000

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $        11,271,342 $           3,855,567 $          634,643,329 $       1,349,562,000
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                       9,878,911             3,239,354            593,195,694         1,212,943,000
Net Assets                                                                       $         1,392,431 $             616,213 $           41,447,635 $         136,619,000

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $           305,717     $         (166,503) $         28,826,896    $     (43,824,000)
     Total operating reserves                                                                 26,998                200,415             6,465,283           45,359,000
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $           332,715     $           33,912 $          35,292,179    $       1,535,000
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                   829,716                258,777            (7,354,163)          53,873,000
     Total capital reserves*                                                                 230,000                323,524            13,509,619           73,788,000
     Endowments                                                                                     -                      -                     -           5,628,000
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $         1,392,431     $          616,213 $          41,447,635    $     134,824,000
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                      -                     -           1,795,000
                                                                                 $         1,392,431     $          616,213 $          41,447,635    $     136,619,000

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
 cannot reserves
*Capital be spent on
                  areoperating
                      funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout priortoministerial
                                        the board       meet futureapproval.
                                                                      capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                          133
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements       of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)

                                                                                                            CAPE-Centre                                     The Christ
                                                                                     The Canadian           for Academic         The Chinook's          the Redeemer
                                                                                          Rockies           and Personal                 Edge            Catholic Sep.
                                                                                           School             Excellence               School                  School
                                                                                          Division               Institute            Division                Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $       12,173,793 $              199,956 $          10,680,184 $          15,466,439
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                   437,702                63,315             4,002,353              2,880,200
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                 211,335                       -           1,831,143              1,296,802
   Endowments                                                                                       -                      -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -                      -                     -               11,002
Total financial assets                                                           $       12,822,830 $              263,271 $          16,513,680 $          19,654,443

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                   - $                    -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  4,027,043               221,703             3,711,984              3,672,578
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             4,207,820               177,535             8,033,148              3,098,150
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                               -                     -              689,047                335,113
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                   462,201                      -            7,910,778              1,075,431
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                     -                      -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                     -                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -                     -                     -                      -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -               16,360                      -                      -
 Total liabilities                                                               $         8,697,064 $             415,598 $          20,344,957 $            8,181,272

 Net financial assets                                                            $         4,125,766 $            (152,327) $          (3,831,277) $        11,473,171

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $       57,191,890 $            7,042,541 $         155,924,458 $          89,754,096
Inventory of supplies                                                                              -                      -              457,068               520,137
 Prepaid expenses                                                                           220,509                 58,441             1,088,995               842,064
Other non-financial assets                                                                  232,320                       -               21,982                      -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $       57,644,719 $            7,100,982 $         157,492,504 $          91,116,297

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $       61,770,485 $            6,948,655 $         153,661,227 $         102,589,468
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                     46,111,132              6,915,611           139,842,908            75,433,928
Net Assets                                                                       $       15,659,353 $               33,044 $          13,818,319 $          27,155,540

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $          306,661     $          (77,526) $            461,420 $             294,603
     Total operating reserves                                                             1,352,810                       -            3,644,053             5,957,246
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $        1,659,471     $          (77,526) $          4,105,473 $           6,251,849
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                               10,618,558                110,570             8,170,770            13,639,836
     Total capital reserves*                                                              3,313,371                       -            1,552,169             7,159,872
     Endowments                                                                                    -                      -               85,567               103,983
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $       15,591,400     $           33,044 $          13,913,978 $          27,155,540
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                   67,953                       -              (95,659)                     -
                                                                                 $       15,659,353     $           33,044 $          13,818,319 $          27,155,540

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
 cannot be
*Capital    spent on
         reserves areoperating
                      funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout priortoministerial
                                         the board      meet futureapproval.
                                                                      capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




134                                                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                  OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)

                                                                                                                              The East Central
                                                                                                                  Connect              Alberta The East Central
                                                                                     The Clearview                 Charter       Catholic Sep.    Francophone
                                                                                            School                 School              School        Education
                                                                                          Division                 Society            Division          Region
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $         5,475,481 $           1,250,625 $           7,202,577 $            1,197,369
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                   296,074               216,655               763,349                879,880
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                 170,359                      -                 3,652               254,271
   Endowments                                                                                       -                     -                      -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                     -                      -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -                     -                      -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $         5,941,914 $           1,467,280 $           7,969,578 $            2,331,520

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                   - $                    -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  1,174,009             1,046,054             1,016,871                999,181
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             1,054,157               316,212             2,250,028              1,003,096
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                               -                     -              178,041                       -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                   835,350                      -              879,974                626,518
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                     -                      -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                     -                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -                     -                     -                      -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -              648,501                      -                      -
 Total liabilities                                                               $         3,063,516 $           2,010,767 $           4,324,914 $            2,628,795

 Net financial assets                                                            $         2,878,398 $            (543,487) $          3,644,664 $             (297,275)

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $       22,202,943 $            3,443,013 $          45,386,718 $          28,044,566
Inventory of supplies                                                                       138,824                       -                     -                     -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                           265,281                239,757               300,400               386,706
Other non-financial assets                                                                      539                       -                     -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $       22,607,587 $            3,682,770 $          45,687,118 $          28,431,272

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $       25,485,985 $            3,139,283 $          49,331,782 $          28,133,997
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                     16,432,928              2,270,089            39,158,094            25,618,938
Net Assets                                                                       $        9,053,058 $              869,194 $          10,173,688 $           2,515,060

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $           352,133    $                 -   $                 -    $          715,955
     Total operating reserves                                                              1,678,988               349,983             4,131,502                       -
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $         2,031,121    $          349,983    $        4,131,502     $          715,955
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                 4,934,652               519,211             5,351,179              1,799,106
     Total capital reserves*                                                               2,087,285                      -              691,007                       -
     Endowments                                                                                     -                     -                     -                      -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $         9,053,058    $          869,194    $       10,173,688     $        2,515,060
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                     -                     -                      -
                                                                                 $         9,053,058    $          869,194    $       10,173,688     $        2,515,060

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                           135
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                    (in dollars)



                                                                                   The Edmonton                                 The Elk Island
                                                                                    Catholic Sep.         The Edmonton           Catholic Sep.        The Elk Island
                                                                                          School                 School                School                School
                                                                                         Division               Division             Division              Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                      $        32,617,909 $         145,245,788    $       11,649,592 $          23,409,051
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                              19,429,504            24,366,646             2,317,824             3,436,933
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                            50,000,000                      -                     -                     -
   Endowments                                                                                     -                     -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                     359,074                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                            -                     -                     -                     -
Total financial assets                                                         $      102,406,487     $      169,612,434    $       13,967,416 $          26,845,984

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                              $                  - $                   - $                   - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                               33,775,053            57,734,509             4,134,564            12,970,036
Unspent deferred contributions                                                          19,352,988            37,244,297             4,486,112             1,721,687
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                    4,619,316             9,293,900                 9,989                      -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                              34,708,211            87,060,484             5,019,282            14,667,337
Other liabilities                                                                                 -                     -                     -                     -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                        -             8,256,931            10,832,064                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                   -                      -                     -                     -
                   Capital leases                                                       9,794,967                       -                     -              302,046
 Total liabilities                                                             $      102,250,535 $          199,590,121 $          24,482,011 $          29,661,106

 Net financial assets                                                          $           155,952 $         (29,977,687) $        (10,514,595) $         (2,815,122)

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                       $      621,291,074 $        1,405,433,673 $         137,010,821 $         158,019,901
Inventory of supplies                                                                   2,597,696              5,235,035                      -                     -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                       6,439,487             10,694,086               844,138             1,926,779
Other non-financial assets                                                                       -                      -                     -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                    $      630,328,257 $        1,421,362,794 $         137,854,959 $         159,946,680

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                         $      630,484,209 $        1,391,385,107    $      127,340,364 $         157,131,558
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                  556,161,788          1,193,977,594           113,245,937           145,630,972
Net Assets                                                                     $       74,322,421 $          197,407,513    $       14,094,427 $          11,500,586

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                      $                  -   $                 -   $           16,415    $                 -
     Total operating reserves                                                           39,981,322            37,980,415             3,979,297            11,591,180
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                    $        39,981,322    $       37,980,415    $        3,995,712    $       11,591,180
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                              20,626,110           116,169,313             7,913,538            (2,580,448)
     Total capital reserves*                                                            13,714,989            43,257,785             2,185,177             2,489,854
     Endowments                                                                                   -                     -                     -                     -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                $        74,322,421    $      197,407,513    $       14,094,427    $       11,500,586
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                        -                     -                     -                     -
                                                                               $        74,322,421    $      197,407,513    $       14,094,427    $       11,500,586

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
 cannot be spent on operating purposes without prior ministerial approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




136                                                                                                                         Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                   OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)
                                                                                                                                                             The Fort
                                                                                                                                                            McMurray
                                                                                     The Evergreen                  FFCA                                      Roman
                                                                                      Catholic Sep.                Charter          The Foothills        Catholic Sep.
                                                                                            School                 School                School                School
                                                                                           Division                Society              Division             Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $         5,828,699 $           1,624,410 $            8,771,696 $          34,510,084
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 1,398,097             2,516,413                929,845             3,285,321
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                        -            1,145,949                       -            5,985,712
   Endowments                                                                                       -                      -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $         7,226,796 $           5,286,772 $            9,701,541 $          43,781,117

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                    - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  2,651,642             4,245,762              2,253,929             5,229,961
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             1,090,752                      -             3,157,180            19,657,867
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                               -                     -                69,800                      -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                   338,033                      -             4,998,178             5,583,296
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                      -                     -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                     -                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -                     -                     -                      -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -                     -              123,538                       -
 Total liabilities                                                               $         4,080,427 $           4,245,762 $          10,602,625 $           30,471,124

 Net financial assets                                                            $         3,146,369 $           1,041,010 $             (901,084) $         13,309,993

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $        42,377,348 $          61,293,098 $          93,486,493 $         101,731,901
Inventory of supplies                                                                               -                     -              609,309                      -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                            521,964               292,283               750,000               795,753
Other non-financial assets                                                                          -                     -                     -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $        42,899,312 $          61,585,381 $          94,845,802 $         102,527,654

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $        46,045,681 $          62,626,391 $          93,944,718 $         115,837,647
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                      40,112,767            49,610,915            87,052,978            93,335,901
Net Assets                                                                       $         5,932,914 $          13,015,476 $           6,891,740 $          22,501,746

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $           467,006    $        1,000,317     $                 -   $                 -
     Total operating reserves                                                              2,673,920               332,976              2,615,718             3,206,853
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $         3,140,926    $        1,333,293     $        2,615,718    $        3,206,853
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                 1,409,648            11,682,183              1,311,802             3,284,772
     Total capital reserves*                                                               1,382,340                      -             2,750,849            15,422,000
     Endowments                                                                                     -                     -               213,371                      -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $         5,932,914    $       13,015,476     $        6,891,740    $       21,913,625
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                     -                      -              588,121
                                                                                 $         5,932,914    $       13,015,476     $        6,891,740    $       22,501,746

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital
 cannot reserves  areoperating
         be spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                          137
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                       (in dollars)
                                                                                                                                                           The Grande
                                                                                                                                                                 Prairie
                                                                                           The Fort                The Fort           The Golden               Roman
                                                                                          McMurray                Vermilion                  Hills        Catholic Sep.
                                                                                            School                  School                School                School
                                                                                           Division                Division              Division             Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                         $       19,970,775 $            3,690,431 $          12,654,809 $            3,850,987
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                  1,367,775             4,060,055              1,107,463             3,108,633
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                5,383,637                       -            9,500,000             5,209,265
   Endowments                                                                                        -                      -               75,000                       -
Inventories for resale                                                                               -                      -                     -                      -
Other financial assets                                                                               -                      -                     -                      -
Total financial assets                                                            $       26,722,187 $            7,750,486 $          23,337,272 $           12,168,885

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                 $                 - $                    - $                   - $                    -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  5,846,885              2,275,266            10,796,968              2,979,809
Unspent deferred contributions                                                            10,669,722              1,622,611               421,749              2,966,469
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                        612,700                105,560               238,882                       -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                12,945,523              2,843,325             5,554,046              3,402,241
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                      -                     -                      -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                      -              111,950                       -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -                      -                     -                      -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -                      -                     -                      -
 Total liabilities                                                                $       30,074,830 $            6,846,762 $          17,123,595 $            9,348,519

 Net financial assets                                                             $        (3,352,644) $            903,724 $            6,213,677 $           2,820,366

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                          $      155,411,065 $           88,580,713 $         106,347,692 $          201,118,621
Inventory of supplies                                                                               -                      -              242,131                       -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                          1,268,920                882,392             1,435,320                921,277
Other non-financial assets                                                                          -                      -                     -               342,701
 Total non-financial assets                                                       $      156,679,985 $           89,463,105 $         108,025,143 $          202,382,599

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                            $      153,327,342 $           90,366,829 $         114,238,821 $          205,202,965
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                     135,847,162             68,719,344            82,961,793            177,740,752
Net Assets                                                                        $       17,480,179 $           21,647,485 $          31,277,028 $           27,462,213

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                         $            8,325     $                 -    $             585     $        2,474,362
     Total operating reserves                                                              4,807,321              3,071,337             5,171,858              1,624,152
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                       $        4,815,646     $        3,071,337     $       5,172,443     $        4,098,514
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                 6,618,382             17,021,155            17,720,036             19,975,623
     Total capital reserves*                                                               6,046,151              1,554,993             8,309,549              3,388,076
     Endowments                                                                                     -                      -               75,000                       -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                   $       17,480,179     $       21,647,485     $      31,277,028     $       27,462,213
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                      -                     -                      -
                                                                                  $       17,480,179     $       21,647,485     $      31,277,028     $       27,462,213

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
  expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital
  cannot reserves
         be spent are funds setpurposes
                  on operating   aside by without
                                          the board
                                                  priortoministerial
                                                          meet future  capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                     approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




138                                                                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                   OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)

                                                                                                                                                          The Greater
                                                                                       The Grande             The Grande                                 North Central
                                                                                            Prairie           Yellowhead The Grasslands                  Francophone
                                                                                           School                  School        School                     Education
                                                                                          Division               Division       Division                       Region
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $        13,406,896 $          20,031,867 $            7,347,544 $           8,819,206
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 1,629,527               212,742               465,607              2,171,701
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                        -                      -                     -                     -
   Endowments                                                                                       -              431,788                       -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                       126,824                       -                     -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $        15,163,247 $          20,676,397 $            7,813,151 $          10,990,907

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                    - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  2,180,781             3,913,648              2,399,254             3,154,247
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             2,946,835             5,238,878                766,592             5,826,111
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                               -                     -               121,700                      -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                 3,156,423            15,079,375              1,482,622             2,066,124
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                      -                     -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                      -                     -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                               402,590                      -                      -                     -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -                     -                      -                     -
 Total liabilities                                                               $         8,686,629 $          24,231,901 $            4,770,168 $          11,046,482

 Net financial assets                                                            $         6,476,618 $          (3,555,504) $           3,042,983 $             (55,575)

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $      212,163,334 $           69,498,483 $          58,473,388 $         140,101,199
Inventory of supplies                                                                              -               118,338               131,532                      -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                         2,129,002                579,332               145,188               653,154
Other non-financial assets                                                                  571,345                       -                     -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $      214,863,681 $           70,196,153 $          58,750,108 $         140,754,353

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $      221,340,299 $           66,640,650 $          61,793,091 $         140,698,778
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                    204,976,886             58,956,387            52,062,309           128,720,593
Net Assets                                                                       $       16,363,413 $            7,684,263 $           9,730,782 $          11,978,185

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $           301,389    $                 -    $          655,885    $        2,334,367
     Total operating reserves                                                             10,728,319             3,255,985              2,116,736                      -
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $        11,029,708    $        3,255,985     $        2,772,621    $        2,334,367
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                 3,655,402            (4,537,280)             4,928,458             9,314,484
     Total capital reserves*                                                               1,678,303             8,533,770              2,029,703               329,334
     Endowments                                                                                     -              431,788                       -                     -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $        16,363,413    $        7,684,263     $        9,730,782    $       11,978,185
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                     -                      -                     -
                                                                                 $        16,363,413    $        7,684,263     $        9,730,782    $       11,978,185

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                           139
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                              (in dollars)
                                                                                      The Greater
                                                                                         St. Albert
                                                                                           Roman                                                     The Holy Family
                                                                                     Catholic Sep. The High Prairie                      Holden        Catholic Sep.
                                                                                           School           School                        Rural               School
                                                                                          Division        Division                     Academy              Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $       10,849,177 $            5,786,598 $               99,650 $           8,450,397
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 3,100,967               487,035                 22,356               969,259
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                        -                      -             140,000                       -
   Endowments                                                                                       -                      -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -              416,381                       -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $       13,950,144 $            6,690,014 $             262,006 $            9,419,656

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                 - $                    - $                   - $                    -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                 5,140,016              1,120,436                71,103                913,553
Unspent deferred contributions                                                            2,486,169                505,780               180,429              1,069,747
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                              -                40,000                      -               132,593
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                               12,622,166              6,358,785               296,235              2,506,139
Other liabilities                                                                                  -                      -                     -                      -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                          -                      -                     -                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                     -                      -                7,591                       -
                   Capital leases                                                                  -                      -                     -                      -
 Total liabilities                                                               $       20,248,351 $            8,025,001 $             555,358 $            4,622,032

 Net financial assets                                                            $        (6,298,207) $         (1,334,987) $            (293,352) $          4,797,624

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $       78,138,600 $           35,832,565 $             255,917 $           36,598,269
Inventory of supplies                                                                              -                      -                     -                42,662
 Prepaid expenses                                                                           542,017                611,894                      -               465,163
Other non-financial assets                                                                         -               503,089                      -               348,632
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $       78,680,617 $           36,947,548 $             255,917 $           37,454,726

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $       72,382,411 $           35,612,561 $              (37,435) $         42,252,350
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                     66,031,200             22,064,636                 73,980            31,483,301
Net Assets                                                                       $        6,351,211 $           13,547,925 $             (111,415) $         10,769,049

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $           299,310 $           1,500,253 $               10,474 $           1,095,053
     Total operating reserves                                                              4,392,360               (56,110)                      -            3,389,839
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $         4,691,670 $           1,444,143 $               10,474 $           4,484,892
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                  (514,471)            7,409,146               (121,889)            2,608,829
     Total capital reserves*                                                               2,174,012             4,694,636                       -            3,675,328
     Endowments                                                                                     -                     -                      -                     -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $         6,351,211 $          13,547,925 $             (111,415) $         10,769,049
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                     -                      -                     -
                                                                                 $         6,351,211 $          13,547,925 $             (111,415) $         10,769,049

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




140                                                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                   OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)

                                                                                     The Holy Spirit                               The Lakeland
                                                                                           Roman                                         Roman
                                                                                      Catholic Sep.          The Horizon           Catholic Sep.         The Lethbridge
                                                                                            School                School                 School                  School
                                                                                           Division              Division               Division               Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $       16,483,136 $            4,279,848 $           3,993,271 $           13,302,141
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 1,193,929             1,030,300             1,340,297              3,773,335
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                        -            3,493,679               757,707              1,800,000
   Endowments                                                                                202,923                       -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $       17,879,988 $            8,803,827 $           6,091,275 $           18,875,476

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                   - $                    -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  2,741,051             1,587,147             1,517,628              6,374,384
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             9,296,110             2,063,136             3,377,671              5,048,758
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                        793,310                87,564                      -               270,116
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                 4,240,350             3,543,650             2,116,193              6,134,165
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                     -                      -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                          -                      -                     -                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                     -                      -                     -                      -
                   Capital leases                                                                  -                      -                     -                      -
 Total liabilities                                                               $       17,070,821 $            7,281,497 $           7,011,492 $           17,827,423

 Net financial assets                                                            $           809,167 $           1,522,330 $             (920,217) $          1,048,054

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $       73,378,166 $           78,937,487 $          44,364,388 $          169,500,341
Inventory of supplies                                                                              -                      -              398,942                223,563
 Prepaid expenses                                                                           834,701                290,098               134,751              2,033,628
Other non-financial assets                                                                         -                      -                     -                      -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $       74,212,867 $           79,227,585 $          44,898,081 $          171,757,532

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $       75,022,034 $           80,749,915 $          43,977,864 $          172,805,586
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                     66,393,299             72,248,734            38,729,048            159,086,744
Net Assets                                                                       $        8,628,735 $            8,501,181 $           5,248,816 $           13,718,842

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $           167,950    $        2,289,198     $                -    $          471,488
     Total operating reserves                                                              2,978,936             1,344,077               991,704              6,141,818
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $         3,146,886    $        3,633,275     $         991,704     $        6,613,306
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                 2,744,515             3,145,100             3,519,146              4,279,425
     Total capital reserves*                                                               2,594,434             1,722,806               737,966              2,506,237
     Endowments                                                                              142,900                      -                     -               319,874
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $         8,628,735    $        8,501,181     $       5,248,816     $       13,718,842
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                     -                     -                      -
                                                                                 $         8,628,735    $        8,501,181     $       5,248,816     $       13,718,842

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                           141
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                    (in dollars)

                                                                                      The Living                 The Medicine Hat
                                                                                         Waters The Livingstone           Roman
                                                                                    Catholic Sep.        Range      Catholic Sep. The Medicine Hat
                                                                                          School         School           School           School
                                                                                        Division        Division         Division         Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                      $         4,028,024 $         15,644,836 $           4,996,412 $           9,142,849
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 693,227             1,677,029            1,298,472             1,964,433
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                      -             187,822                       -           2,003,500
   Endowments                                                                                     -                     -                     -           2,367,304
Inventories for resale                                                                            -                     -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                            -                   15                      -                     -
Total financial assets                                                         $         4,721,251 $         17,509,702 $           6,294,884 $          15,478,086

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                              $                  - $                  - $                   - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  761,721            2,542,983             3,117,212             3,858,516
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             762,281           11,563,320             1,868,513             2,150,213
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                             -              33,300                      -              791,060
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                 531,750            4,624,350             1,027,743             3,543,985
Other liabilities                                                                                 -                    -                     -                     -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                         -                    -                     -                     -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                    -                    -                     -                     -
                   Capital leases                                                                 -                    -                     -                     -
 Total liabilities                                                             $         2,055,752 $         18,763,953 $           6,013,468 $          10,343,774

 Net financial assets                                                          $         2,665,499 $          (1,254,251) $           281,416 $           5,134,312

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                       $        64,266,416 $         47,784,056 $          40,620,071 $         105,208,270
Inventory of supplies                                                                             -                    -                     -                     -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                          222,834              544,216             1,109,818             1,118,607
Other non-financial assets                                                                        -                    -              184,855                    20
 Total non-financial assets                                                    $        64,489,250 $         48,328,272 $          41,914,744 $         106,326,897

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                         $        67,154,749 $         47,074,021 $          42,196,160 $         111,461,209
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                    55,909,603           37,671,376            38,999,366            90,529,771
Net Assets                                                                     $        11,245,146 $          9,402,645 $           3,196,794 $          20,931,438

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                      $                  -   $                 -   $         576,738     $         565,581
     Total operating reserves                                                            1,538,437             1,710,432            1,304,726             4,190,000
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                    $         1,538,437    $        1,710,432    $       1,881,464     $       4,755,581
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                               7,825,063             5,488,330              592,962            11,134,451
     Total capital reserves*                                                             1,881,646             2,203,883              722,369             2,646,000
     Endowments                                                                                   -                     -                    -            2,214,099
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                $        11,245,146    $        9,402,645    $       3,196,794     $      20,750,131
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                        -                     -                    -              181,307
                                                                               $        11,245,146    $        9,402,645    $       3,196,794     $      20,931,438

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
 cannot be spent on operating purposes without prior ministerial approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




142                                                                                                                         Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                   OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)

                                                                                     Mother Earth's
                                                                                        Children's          New Horizons            New Humble           The Northern
                                                                                           Charter               Charter             Community               Gateway
                                                                                            School               School                  School               School
                                                                                           Society               Society             Association             Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $            55,996 $             661,156 $              975,108 $          15,936,176
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                     2,568               121,730                250,445               817,268
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                        -              121,049                       -                     -
   Endowments                                                                                       -                      -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $            58,564 $             903,935 $            1,225,553 $          16,753,444

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                    - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                     43,888                75,910                343,496             1,974,792
Unspent deferred contributions                                                                      -               15,200                540,898             1,112,679
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                               -                     -                      -                     -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                          -                     -                      -            9,242,298
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                      -                     -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                      -                     -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -                     -                      -                     -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -                     -                      -                     -
 Total liabilities                                                               $            43,888 $              91,110 $              884,394 $          12,329,769

 Net financial assets                                                            $            14,676 $             812,825 $              341,159 $           4,423,675

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $                  - $          7,844,416 $              762,209 $          77,582,071
Inventory of supplies                                                                               -                     -                      -                     -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                              1,954                35,135                       -              346,985
Other non-financial assets                                                                          -                     -                      -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $             1,954 $           7,879,551 $              762,209 $          77,929,056

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $            16,630 $           8,692,376 $            1,103,368 $          82,352,731
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                                -            7,262,267                314,316            65,063,945
Net Assets                                                                       $            16,630 $           1,430,109 $              789,052 $          17,288,786

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $            16,630    $          539,975     $          168,813    $                 -
     Total operating reserves                                                                       -              150,876                172,345            11,803,371
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $            16,630    $          690,851     $          341,158    $       11,803,371
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                          -              582,149                447,894             3,276,291
     Total capital reserves*                                                                        -              157,109                       -            2,209,124
     Endowments                                                                                     -                     -                      -                     -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $            16,630    $        1,430,109     $          789,052    $       17,288,786
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                     -                      -                     -
                                                                                 $            16,630    $        1,430,109     $          789,052    $       17,288,786

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital
 cannot reserves  areoperating
         be spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                          143
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                       (in dollars)


                                                                                      The Northern                                 The Northwest
                                                                                            Lights           The Northland          Francophone            The Palliser
                                                                                           School                  School              Education               School
                                                                                          Division                Division               Region               Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $         9,412,163 $          11,669,246 $            2,084,792 $          14,234,120
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 1,897,768              8,985,723               511,409             5,501,610
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                 711,461                       -               26,727               140,460
   Endowments                                                                                        -                     -                      -               93,644
Inventories for resale                                                                               -                     -                      -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                               -               64,426                       -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $        12,021,392 $          20,719,395 $            2,622,929 $          19,969,834

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                    - $                   - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  5,157,319              6,903,183               315,039             4,110,105
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             3,292,354              7,689,964             1,889,740            10,951,370
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                         78,859                       -              176,472               143,100
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                 7,222,547              1,202,842                25,000             1,510,685
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                      -                     -                     -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                      -                     -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -                     -                      -                     -
                   Capital leases                                                             97,954                50,471                       -            2,096,711
 Total liabilities                                                               $        15,849,033 $          15,846,460 $            2,406,252 $          18,811,971

 Net financial assets                                                            $        (3,827,641) $           4,872,935 $             216,677 $           1,157,863

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $       108,017,550 $          89,562,237 $           32,170,075 $          91,759,368
Inventory of supplies                                                                        162,086                      -                      -               32,972
 Prepaid expenses                                                                          1,971,531               426,936                189,050               896,334
Other non-financial assets                                                                          -                     -                      -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $       110,151,167 $          89,989,173 $           32,359,124 $          92,688,674

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $       106,323,526 $          94,862,108 $           32,575,801 $          93,846,537
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                      95,953,603            75,468,471             31,439,290            81,504,593
Net Assets                                                                       $        10,369,923 $          19,393,637 $            1,136,511 $          12,341,944

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $            53,136     $       2,222,879     $           13,140     $               2
     Total operating reserves                                                              3,830,173                      -                      -            4,474,794
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $         3,883,309     $       2,222,879     $           13,140     $       4,474,796
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                 4,743,446            12,345,013                705,784             7,247,143
     Total capital reserves*                                                               1,728,652             4,825,745                417,586               526,361
     Endowments                                                                                     -                     -                      -               93,644
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $        10,355,407     $      19,393,637     $        1,136,511     $      12,341,944
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                    14,516                      -                      -                     -
                                                                                 $        10,369,923     $      19,393,637     $        1,136,511     $      12,341,944

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




144                                                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                   OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)


                                                                                                                                     The Peace           The Pembina
                                                                                     The Parkland The Peace River                        Wapiti                   Hills
                                                                                           School         School                        School                 School
                                                                                          Division       Division                      Division               Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $        19,582,909 $           9,268,044 $            3,180,719 $           7,021,996
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 3,041,855               874,206              2,235,238               440,608
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                        -                      -            2,634,918                      -
   Endowments                                                                                       -                      -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -              928,898
Other financial assets                                                                              -              465,171                       -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $        22,624,764 $          10,607,421 $            8,050,875 $           8,391,502

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                    - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  8,727,113             3,414,844              3,685,511             3,860,117
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             2,890,919             3,167,835                790,710             3,379,473
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                        372,800                 3,400                349,894                      -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                12,647,535             4,504,704              7,468,800             2,431,141
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                      -                     -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                     -                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -                     -                     -                      -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -                     -                     -                      -
 Total liabilities                                                               $        24,638,367 $          11,090,783 $          12,294,915 $            9,670,731

 Net financial assets                                                            $        (2,013,603) $           (483,362) $          (4,244,040) $         (1,279,229)

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $      172,150,816 $           64,415,628 $         127,592,569 $           32,225,644
Inventory of supplies                                                                              -               428,036               996,724                328,050
 Prepaid expenses                                                                           378,505                460,052             1,180,375                327,298
Other non-financial assets                                                                         -                      -              783,239                 46,324
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $      172,529,321 $           65,303,716 $         130,552,907 $           32,927,316

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $      170,515,718 $           64,820,354 $         126,308,867 $           31,648,088
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                    157,247,269             49,501,952           113,871,340             23,890,382
Net Assets                                                                       $       13,268,449 $           15,318,402 $          12,437,527 $            7,757,706

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $                  -   $       (3,153,207)    $                -    $          903,067
     Total operating reserves                                                              5,697,008             5,071,581             2,226,996               (705,149)
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $         5,697,008    $        1,918,374     $       2,226,996     $          197,918
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                 1,254,132            10,408,955             6,247,057              5,904,422
     Total capital reserves*                                                               6,317,309             2,912,948             3,963,474              1,655,365
     Endowments                                                                                     -                     -                     -                      -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $        13,268,449    $       15,240,277     $      12,437,527     $        7,757,706
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -               78,125                      -                      -
                                                                                 $        13,268,449    $       15,318,402     $      12,437,527     $        7,757,706

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                          145
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)


                                                                                                                                   The Red Deer
                                                                                 The Prairie Land The Prairie Rose                  Catholic Sep.        The Red Deer
                                                                                           School           School                        School               School
                                                                                         Division         Division                      Division              Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $         1,067,122 $           9,041,741 $            7,852,175 $           7,504,945
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 1,007,153             1,663,617              4,651,920             1,832,191
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                               5,655,174                       -              400,137             8,675,178
   Endowments                                                                                       -                      -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $         7,729,449 $          10,705,358 $           12,904,232 $         18,012,314

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                    - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  1,958,317             4,551,740              5,896,339             2,814,087
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             1,862,514             3,517,571              4,474,925             7,190,753
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                         36,700                      -             1,752,365             1,081,300
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                 1,480,300             4,604,850                476,432             3,947,000
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                      -               44,408
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                      -                    -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -            6,100,000              4,568,590                     -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -                     -                      -                    -
 Total liabilities                                                               $         5,337,831 $          18,774,161 $           17,168,651 $         15,077,547

 Net financial assets                                                            $         2,391,619 $          (8,068,803) $          (4,264,419) $          2,934,766

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $       60,255,265 $           46,561,589 $         165,413,610 $         133,996,596
Inventory of supplies                                                                              -                      -              385,016               543,373
 Prepaid expenses                                                                           439,862                848,759             2,359,624             1,548,665
Other non-financial assets                                                                         -                      -                     -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $       60,695,127 $           47,410,348 $         168,158,250 $         136,088,634

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $       63,086,746 $           39,341,545 $         163,893,831 $         139,023,401
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                     52,625,199             34,907,465           146,393,304           124,629,342
Net Assets                                                                       $       10,461,547 $            4,434,080 $          17,500,527 $          14,394,059

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $                 -    $        1,216,558     $                 -   $       3,158,531
     Total operating reserves                                                             1,493,230              1,225,227              2,113,163            4,977,973
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $        1,493,230     $        2,441,785     $        2,113,163    $       8,136,504
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                6,149,765              1,288,132             14,707,579            5,420,253
     Total capital reserves*                                                              2,769,814                704,163                509,417              837,301
     Endowments                                                                                    -                      -                      -                    -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $       10,412,809     $        4,434,080     $       17,330,159    $      14,394,059
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                   48,738                       -               170,368                     -
                                                                                 $       10,461,547     $        4,434,080     $       17,500,527    $      14,394,059

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




146                                                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                  OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)


                                                                                                            The Southern
                                                                                  The Rocky View            Francophone           The St. Albert         The St. Paul
                                                                                          School               Education                School                School
                                                                                         Division                Region                Division              Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $       18,140,286 $            8,081,929 $          21,058,045 $           5,479,618
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                4,292,719              3,043,713             3,183,846               432,475
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                             18,342,261                       -                      -                     -
   Endowments                                                                                 90,941                      -                      -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                     -              112,742                       -
Other financial assets                                                                    1,221,193                       -                      -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $       42,087,400 $           11,125,642 $          24,354,633 $           5,912,093

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                 - $                    - $                   - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                26,205,592              2,003,901             6,027,209             2,077,927
Unspent deferred contributions                                                            7,432,671              4,049,963             1,361,981             1,967,382
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                               18,220,155              1,258,965             1,860,337             5,272,804
Other liabilities                                                                                  -                      -                     -                     -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                   182,187                       -                     -                     -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                     -                      -                     -                     -
                   Capital leases                                                                  -                      -                     -                     -
 Total liabilities                                                               $       52,040,605 $            7,312,829 $           9,249,527 $           9,318,113

 Net financial assets                                                            $        (9,953,205) $          3,812,814 $          15,105,106 $           (3,406,019)

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $      386,483,963 $           93,591,726 $         117,261,030 $          94,696,018
Inventory of supplies                                                                       275,328                       -                     -                     -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                         2,525,936                490,498               995,456               377,675
Other non-financial assets                                                                         -                      -                     -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $      389,285,227 $           94,082,224 $         118,256,486 $          95,073,693

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $      379,332,022 $           97,895,038 $         133,361,592 $          91,667,674
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                    348,613,195             92,146,524           111,918,532            89,587,041
Net Assets                                                                       $       30,718,828 $            5,748,514 $          21,443,060 $           2,080,633

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $                 -    $        1,003,479    $        3,977,751     $         500,000
     Total operating reserves                                                            11,199,815              1,444,902             7,394,855             1,271,590
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $       11,199,815     $        2,448,381    $       11,372,606     $       1,771,590
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                               19,428,072              2,707,860             3,465,124              (163,838)
     Total capital reserves*                                                                       -               592,273             6,605,330               472,881
     Endowments                                                                              90,941                       -                     -                     -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $       30,718,828     $        5,748,514    $       21,443,060     $       2,080,633
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                         -                      -                     -                     -
                                                                                 $       30,718,828     $        5,748,514    $       21,443,060     $       2,080,633

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                 aside bywithout
                                          the board
                                                 priorto meet future
                                                       ministerial    capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                           147
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024

                                                                                                                      (in dollars)
                                                                                  The St. Thomas
                                                                                          Aquinas
                                                                                           Roman                   STEM                   STEM
                                                                                    Catholic Sep.               Collegiate            Innovation         The Sturgeon
                                                                                           School                Canada                Academy                 School
                                                                                          Division                Society                Society              Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $         3,364,275 $             774,989 $            2,088,007 $          11,585,867
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                 1,645,994               284,351                158,571               511,445
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                               1,200,000                       -                     -                    26
   Endowments                                                                                       -                      -                     -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -                      -                     -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $         6,210,269 $           1,059,340 $            2,246,578 $          12,097,338

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                  - $                   - $                    - $                   -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                    890,857               352,905                613,691             2,660,418
Unspent deferred contributions                                                             1,623,952               555,880              1,175,584             2,666,718
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                               -                     -                      -               31,353
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                 1,777,233                      -                      -            8,552,904
Other liabilities                                                                                   -                     -                      -                     -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                           -                     -                      -                     -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                      -                     -                      -                     -
                   Capital leases                                                                   -               18,591                       -                6,378
 Total liabilities                                                               $         4,292,042 $             927,376 $            1,789,275 $          13,917,771

 Net financial assets                                                            $         1,918,227 $             131,964 $              457,303 $          (1,820,433)

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $        85,394,480 $           3,796,718 $              937,201 $          95,198,757
Inventory of supplies                                                                        111,355                      -                      -                     -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                            306,377               148,377                 43,896               390,705
Other non-financial assets                                                                          -                     -                      -                     -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $        85,812,212 $           3,945,095 $              981,097 $          95,589,462

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $        87,730,439 $           4,077,059 $            1,438,400 $          93,769,029
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                      79,974,957             3,796,718                937,201            80,507,982
Net Assets                                                                       $         7,755,482 $             280,341 $              501,199 $          13,261,047

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $                  -   $          280,341     $          501,199    $                 -
     Total operating reserves                                                              2,033,955                      -                      -            3,954,352
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $         2,033,955    $          280,341     $          501,199    $        3,954,352
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                 3,644,053                      -                      -            6,137,860
     Total capital reserves*                                                               2,077,473                      -                      -            3,168,835
     Endowments                                                                                     -                     -                      -                     -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $         7,755,482    $          280,341     $          501,199    $       13,261,047
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                          -                     -                      -                     -
                                                                                 $         7,755,482    $          280,341     $          501,199    $       13,261,047

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital
 cannot reserves  areoperating
         be spent on  funds setpurposes
                                aside bywithout
                                         the board
                                                priortoministerial
                                                        meet future   capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




148                                                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                  OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)



                                                                                            Suzuki                  Thrive                                 Westmount
                                                                                            Charter                Charter              Valhalla              Charter
                                                                                            School                 School                School               School
                                                                                            Society                Society           Foundation               Society
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                        $          454,387 $              155,423 $             276,342 $            1,140,599
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                    15,601                      -               28,171                 85,033
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                225,307                       -                      -                     -
   Endowments                                                                                       -                     -                      -                     -
Inventories for resale                                                                              -                     -                      -                     -
Other financial assets                                                                              -                  510                       -                     -
Total financial assets                                                           $          695,295 $              155,933 $             304,513 $            1,225,632

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                $                 - $                    - $                   - $                    -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                   118,248                 66,964                76,009                707,414
Unspent deferred contributions                                                              107,304                222,737                60,944                182,086
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                              -                11,733                      -                      -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                         -                      -                     -                      -
Other liabilities                                                                                  -               (22,173)                     -                      -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                          -                      -                     -                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                     -                      -               19,915                       -
                   Capital leases                                                                  -                      -               14,482                       -
 Total liabilities                                                               $          225,552 $              279,261 $             171,350 $              889,500

 Net financial assets                                                            $          469,743 $             (123,328) $            133,163 $              336,131

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                         $         2,519,692 $             789,862 $             292,800 $            2,006,629
Inventory of supplies                                                                               -               44,272                      -                      -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                             32,654                96,966                 4,121                243,535
Other non-financial assets                                                                          -                     -                     -                      -
 Total non-financial assets                                                      $         2,552,346 $             931,100 $             296,921 $            2,250,164

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                           $         3,022,089 $             807,772 $             430,085 $            2,586,295
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                       2,367,871               789,862               186,359              1,680,000
Net Assets                                                                       $           654,218 $              17,910 $             243,726 $              906,295

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                        $          395,188     $           17,910    $          151,767     $          (28,162)
     Total operating reserves                                                               107,208                       -                     -                      -
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                      $          502,396     $           17,910    $          151,767     $          (28,162)
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                  151,822                       -               91,959                326,630
     Total capital reserves*                                                                       -                      -                     -               607,827
     Endowments                                                                                    -                      -                     -                      -
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                  $          654,218     $           17,910    $          243,726     $          906,295
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                         -                      -                     -                      -
                                                                                 $          654,218     $           17,910    $          243,726     $          906,295

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves
 cannot be        areoperating
            spent on  funds setpurposes
                                 aside bywithout
                                          the board
                                                 priorto meet future
                                                       ministerial    capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
                                                                   approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                           149
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024
As at August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                   (in dollars)




                                                                                   The Westwind The Wetaskiwin                  The Wild Rose         The Wolf Creek
                                                                                         School        School                          School                 School
                                                                                        Division      Division                        Division              Division
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                      $         4,619,697 $          6,104,795 $           10,266,993 $            9,600,305
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                               1,056,959              631,415                457,199              1,451,556
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                              454,713                       -                     -               617,723
   Endowments                                                                             501,848                77,000                       -               167,285
Inventories for resale                                                                            -                     -                     -                      -
Other financial assets                                                                            -                     -                     -                      -
Total financial assets                                                         $         6,633,217 $          6,813,210 $           10,724,192 $           11,836,869

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                              $                  - $                  - $                    - $                    -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                  996,359              794,460              3,187,163              3,510,291
Unspent deferred contributions                                                           2,206,158            2,349,341              2,923,150              3,992,250
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                      160,041                     -                36,691                       -
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                 718,243            3,386,643                992,071              8,311,847
Other liabilities                                                                                 -                    -                      -                      -
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                         -                    -                      -                      -
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                    -                    -                      -                      -
                   Capital leases                                                                 -                    -                      -                      -
 Total liabilities                                                             $         4,080,801 $          6,530,444 $            7,139,075 $           15,814,388

 Net financial assets                                                          $         2,552,416 $            282,766 $            3,585,117 $           (3,977,519)

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                       $       82,284,981 $          50,240,200 $          121,933,059 $          116,299,673
Inventory of supplies                                                                            -               56,942                 74,089                       -
 Prepaid expenses                                                                         198,512               673,660                371,134              1,294,965
Other non-financial assets                                                                       -                     -                      -                      -
 Total non-financial assets                                                    $       82,483,493 $          50,970,802 $          122,378,282 $          117,594,638

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                         $       85,035,909 $          51,253,568 $          125,963,399 $          113,617,119
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                   75,146,970            45,481,495            116,909,518            105,568,782
Net Assets                                                                     $        9,888,939 $           5,772,073 $            9,053,881 $            8,048,337

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                      $           533,821    $                -    $                 -   $         1,920,190
     Total operating reserves                                                            1,329,976            4,208,049              3,234,952              1,090,539
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                    $         1,863,797    $       4,208,049     $        3,234,952    $         3,010,729
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                               6,419,768            1,264,476              4,028,894              2,419,045
     Total capital reserves*                                                             1,103,526              222,548              1,790,036              2,451,278
     Endowments                                                                            501,848               77,000                       -               167,285
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                $         9,888,939    $       5,772,073     $        9,053,881    $         8,048,337
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                        -                    -                      -                      -
                                                                               $         9,888,939    $       5,772,073     $        9,053,881    $         8,048,337

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds
*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
 cannot be spent on operating purposes without prior ministerial approval.
purposes without prior ministerial approval.




150                                                                                                                         Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                                  OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’
Statements of Financial Position and Net Assets
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Financial Position and
Net Assets
As at August 31, 2024

                                                                                                                        (in dollars)


                                                                                                                                                      2023
                                                                                                                      2024                          Actual
                                                                                                                     Actual                         Totals
                                                                                                                     Totals                   (As Restated)
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                       $            1,054,306,403    $                  990,850,922
Accounts receivable (net after allowances)                                                                     205,198,437                       218,926,613
Portfolio investments
   Operating                                                                                                   165,591,644                       175,670,160
   Endowments                                                                                                   14,962,733                        12,877,161
Inventories for resale                                                                                           1,400,714                         1,593,259
Other financial assets                                                                                           4,625,039                           901,180
Total financial assets                                                                          $            1,446,084,970    $                1,400,819,295

LIABILITIES
Bank indebtedness                                                                               $                         - $                               -
 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                                                      515,664,903                       490,259,655
Unspent deferred contributions                                                                                 315,882,473                       255,223,154
 Employee future benefits liabilities                                                                           55,503,582                        56,503,744
Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities                                                     593,275,084                       576,660,920
Other liabilities                                                                                                   25,275                         3,746,023
Debt
  Unsupported: Debentures                                                                                       19,383,132                        21,058,445
                   Mortgages and capital loans                                                                  13,099,246                         2,619,835
                   Capital leases                                                                               24,618,104                        26,469,958
 Total liabilities                                                                              $            1,537,451,799 $                   1,432,541,734

 Net financial assets                                                                           $              (91,366,829) $                    (31,722,439)

NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Tangible capital assets                                                                        $            9,796,588,457 $                   9,661,390,241
Inventory of supplies                                                                                           14,899,652                        15,302,440
 Prepaid expenses                                                                                               93,584,462                        75,051,517
Other non-financial assets                                                                                       3,035,046                         2,376,898
 Total non-financial assets                                                                     $            9,908,107,617 $                   9,754,121,096

Net assets before spent deferred capital contributions                                          $            9,816,740,788    $                9,722,398,657
Spent deferred capital contributions                                                                         8,632,561,010                     8,551,003,472
Net Assets                                                                                      $            1,184,179,778    $                1,171,395,185

Net Assets is comprised of:
     Unrestricted surplus                                                                       $               19,761,232    $                   56,023,784
     Total operating reserves                                                                                  332,462,507                       327,020,221
        Accumulated Surplus from Operations                                                     $              352,223,739    $                  383,044,005
     Investment in tangible capital assets                                                                     517,106,934                       487,380,683
     Total capital reserves*                                                                                   301,855,336                       290,085,659
     Endowments                                                                                                 10,145,300                         9,654,792
  Accumulated surplus (deficit)                                                                 $            1,181,331,309    $                1,170,165,139
  Accumulated remeasurement gains (losses)                                                                       2,848,469                         1,230,046
                                                                                                $            1,184,179,778    $                1,171,395,185

*Capital reserves are funds set aside by the board to meet future capital
 expenditures.
*Capital       Once
         reserves arethe  capital
                       funds set reserves
                                  aside by are
                                           the established,
                                               board to meetthefuture
                                                                fundscapital expenditures. Once the capital reserves are established, the funds cannot be spent on operating
purposes
 cannot bewithout  prior
            spent on     ministerial
                     operating       approval.
                                purposes  without prior ministerial approval.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                          151
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                 (in dollars)



                                                                                                 Alberta                        The Aspen
                                                                                             Classical       Almadina                View           Aurora
                                                                                             Academy           School              School           School
                                                                                                  Ltd.         Society            Division            Ltd.
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $           12,419,572 $     15,789,135 $       43,752,427 $     12,531,499
Federal Government and other government grants                                                       -               -           1,244,729               -
Property taxes                                                                                       -               -                   -               -
Fees                                                                                         1,093,572         362,798             695,626         788,389
Sales of services and products                                                                       -                -             89,982           16,568
Investment income                                                                               15,571          137,845            362,445          287,763
Donations and other contributions                                                               13,703            2,108            231,278           66,616
Other revenue                                                                                    3,204           30,135            508,337           23,126
   Total revenues                                                               $           13,545,622 $     16,322,021 $       46,884,824 $     13,713,961

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $              307,569 $        344,239 $          706,546 $        416,692
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                 7,279,886       11,628,087         31,402,926        8,769,860
Operations and maintenance                                                                   4,026,058        1,345,441          6,394,279        3,042,639
Transportation                                                                               1,080,026        1,637,322          5,385,628        1,612,850
System administration                                                                          359,432          718,349          2,053,298          484,346
External services                                                                              325,687                -             25,615                -
   Total expenses                                                              $            13,378,658 $     15,673,439 $       45,968,292 $     14,326,386

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                             $                 166,964 $     648,582 $           916,532 $       (612,425)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                          -             -                   -                -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $                166,964 $     648,582 $           916,532 $       (612,425)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                               242,274     3,557,202           3,915,293        8,212,774
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $                409,238 $   4,205,784 $         4,831,825 $      7,600,349


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                 $             (3,421,792) $   1,233,006 $            274,109 $     2,188,162
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (6,871,141)      (534,833)          (1,433,556)       (657,365)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                        -       (627,795)              17,425         530,087
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                6,937,665        180,009            1,357,369           1,377

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               $             (3,355,268) $     250,387 $           215,347 $      2,062,261
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                           4,502,663      1,303,759           6,696,398        4,297,123
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                  $              1,147,395 $    1,554,146 $         6,911,745 $      6,359,385


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                          761          1,266              2,356               976

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




152                                                                                                              Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                     OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                  (in dollars)



                                                                                           The Battle        The Black                             The Buffalo
                                                                                                   River          Gold           Boyle Street            Trail
                                                                                                  School        School             Education           School
                                                                                                 Division      Division               Centre          Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                          $            77,523,403 $     149,939,659 $          4,038,221 $     55,270,499
Federal Government and other government grants                                                 476,396           622,909              149,975           23,730
Property taxes                                                                                       -                -                     -                -
Fees                                                                                         1,062,036        3,680,461                     -          548,038
Sales of services and products                                                               1,673,604         1,585,618                    -           23,396
Investment income                                                                              485,604         1,225,217              111,541          331,176
Donations and other contributions                                                            1,028,601         1,377,392                    -        1,769,203
Other revenue                                                                                  231,255           464,997                    -          483,882
   Total revenues                                                              $            82,480,899 $     158,896,253 $          4,299,737 $     58,449,924

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                              $             2,673,739 $       8,222,702 $                  - $      1,504,585
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                59,443,148       117,671,824            3,175,455       40,390,050
Operations and maintenance                                                                  10,819,074       21,447,728             1,123,169        8,134,251
Transportation                                                                               6,399,407        6,153,680               102,914        6,676,750
System administration                                                                        2,651,530        4,362,169              193,609         2,175,524
External services                                                                            2,610,020          360,787                    -           310,169
   Total expenses                                                              $            84,596,918 $     158,218,890 $          4,595,147 $     59,191,329

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                             $             (2,116,019) $      677,363 $            (295,410) $      (741,405)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                         -               -                     -                -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                       $             (2,116,019) $      677,363 $            (295,410) $      (741,405)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                          11,035,294       16,829,066             2,257,175        4,699,870
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                   $             8,919,275 $     17,506,429 $           1,961,765 $      3,958,465


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                 $             (2,015,936) $   (9,909,569) $           (163,372) $       (989,327)
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (6,741,784)     (3,895,953)              (11,004)       (1,265,779)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                  (86,395)     (2,806,556)              148,591                 -
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                4,987,477      18,421,355                     -         1,173,502

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               $            (3,856,638) $     1,809,277 $            (25,785) $      (1,081,604)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                         11,672,592        5,002,068              122,090          6,325,421
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                  $             7,815,954 $      6,811,345 $             96,305 $        5,243,817


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                         5,330         11,993                  164             3,444

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                153
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                   (in dollars)


                                                                                                                                   The Calgary
                                                                                                 Calgary       Calgary                 Roman
                                                                                                    Arts         Girls'           Catholic Sep.     The Calgary
                                                                                             Academy            School                  School           School
                                                                                              Society           Society                Division         Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                          $             6,414,596 $      5,710,404 $           545,920,182 $   1,446,210,000
Federal Government and other government grants                                                         -              -               1,656,254        1,113,000
Property taxes                                                                                         -              -              94,153,421                -
Fees                                                                                             540,500        560,669              13,019,463       54,403,000
Sales of services and products                                                                  71,834                -              12,738,248        23,798,000
Investment income                                                                               45,299           83,197               5,052,376        11,638,000
Donations and other contributions                                                                5,594                -               4,182,874        17,602,000
Other revenue                                                                                  117,438           27,088               4,489,646         4,768,000
   Total revenues                                                              $             7,195,261 $      6,381,358 $           681,212,464 $   1,559,532,000

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                              $                47,912 $              - $            24,995,077 $      35,246,000
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                 5,049,030        4,614,128             519,427,163     1,191,245,000
Operations and maintenance                                                                   1,223,746          608,938              83,633,123       207,673,000
Transportation                                                                                 529,361          834,358              22,745,746        50,796,000
System administration                                                                          284,466          397,495              19,140,483        45,477,000
External services                                                                                    -           82,075               2,916,420        33,871,000
   Total expenses                                                              $             7,134,515 $      6,536,994 $           672,858,012 $   1,564,308,000


Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                             $                  60,746 $     (155,636) $            8,354,452 $      (4,776,000)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                          -              -                       -                 -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                       $                  60,746 $     (155,636) $            8,354,452 $      (4,776,000)


Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                           1,331,685          771,849              33,093,183      139,600,000
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                   $             1,392,431 $        616,213 $            41,447,635 $    134,824,000


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                 $                  725,041 $   (1,835,772) $          13,742,761 $      54,952,000
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                     (162,277)    (1,597,739)           (37,470,971)      (67,015,000)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                    (32,344)             -                      -         1,109,000
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                    266,300      1,644,023             23,743,319        24,409,000

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               $               796,720 $      (1,789,488) $              15,109 $     13,455,000
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                            789,535         2,404,496             93,639,467      182,183,000
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                  $             1,586,255 $         615,008 $           93,654,576 $    195,638,000


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                          573            469                  57,009           127,568

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




154                                                                                                               Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                         OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                       (in dollars)


                                                                                                               CAPE-Centre                                      The Christ
                                                                                       The Canadian            for Academic           The Chinook's          the Redeemer
                                                                                            Rockies            and Personal                   Edge            Catholic Sep.
                                                                                                  School         Excellence                  School                 School
                                                                                                 Division          Institute                Division               Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $            27,896,332 $          3,518,352 $           131,969,667 $           98,097,570
Federal Government and other government grants                                                   5,512,544                 -                 27,562                  25,286
Property taxes                                                                                           -                 -                      -               6,946,791
Fees                                                                                              925,502           264,536                2,528,152              1,807,380
Sales of services and products                                                                1,470,370              117,103               1,840,823                508,989
Investment income                                                                               685,668                4,754                 628,546                994,779
Donations and other contributions                                                             2,829,946               31,706                 980,169                747,561
Other revenue                                                                                   153,936               24,514               1,257,997                470,381
   Total revenues                                                               $            39,474,298 $          3,960,965 $           139,232,916 $          109,598,737

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $                 592,639 $         186,532 $              3,967,676 $            2,446,024
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                 23,944,056            2,775,399             101,375,028             81,694,649
Operations and maintenance                                                                    6,030,673              507,602              17,370,276             13,876,689
Transportation                                                                                   1,466,844          169,343                8,347,072              6,230,250
System administration                                                                            2,132,432          193,859                4,462,665              3,336,950
External services                                                                             2,403,781               80,969               2,757,496                151,234
   Total expenses                                                               $            36,570,425 $          3,913,704 $           138,280,214 $          107,735,796

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $                2,903,873 $         47,261 $               952,703 $             1,862,941
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                            -                -                       -                       -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $                2,903,873 $         47,261 $               952,703 $             1,862,941

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                           12,687,527              (14,217)             12,961,276             25,292,599
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $            15,591,400 $             33,044 $            13,913,978 $           27,155,540


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $             2,336,597 $             95,355 $             4,262,107 $            3,570,584
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (4,445,396)             (22,775)             (5,410,497)            (4,422,542)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                4,999,500                    -                  89,697                296,800
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                  943,219               17,610               3,760,091              2,996,941

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $             3,833,920 $            90,190 $              2,701,398 $            2,441,783
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                           8,339,873             109,766                7,978,786             13,024,656
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $            12,173,793 $           199,956 $             10,680,184 $           15,466,439


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                          1,651               253                  10,302                  8,697

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                            155
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                    (in dollars)


                                                                                                                               The East Central
                                                                                                                Connect                  Alberta      The East Central
                                                                                       The Clearview             Charter           Catholic Sep.         Francophone
                                                                                                  School         School                  School             Education
                                                                                                 Division        Society                Division              Region
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $            35,649,247 $      7,527,670 $            24,162,797 $          17,311,015
Federal Government and other government grants                                                           -             -                       -               842,008
Property taxes                                                                                           -             -               1,388,772                     -
Fees                                                                                              288,138        999,043                 216,672               139,887
Sales of services and products                                                                  435,619          246,059                 172,839               385,382
Investment income                                                                               243,006          101,360                 431,993                32,224
Donations and other contributions                                                               337,253           58,063                 317,206               209,999
Other revenue                                                                                   288,956          234,759                  14,020               237,383
   Total revenues                                                               $            37,242,219 $      9,166,954 $            26,704,299 $          19,157,898

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $                1,498,307 $           - $               866,053 $             824,768
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                 24,718,195        6,833,144              20,532,533            11,196,510
Operations and maintenance                                                                    5,360,008        1,286,710               4,411,605             2,734,422
Transportation                                                                                   3,666,526       718,853                 762,266             2,007,707
System administration                                                                            1,677,474       343,846               1,247,926               965,521
External services                                                                               267,989                -                 145,029             2,021,120
   Total expenses                                                               $            37,188,499 $      9,182,553 $            27,965,412 $          19,750,048

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $                  53,720 $      (15,599) $           (1,261,113) $           (592,150)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                           -              -                       -                     -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $                  53,720 $      (15,599) $           (1,261,113) $           (592,150)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                               8,999,338       884,793              11,434,801             3,107,211
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $                9,053,058 $     869,194 $            10,173,688 $           2,515,060


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $             1,488,893 $      (1,574,317) $          (1,488,747) $           (293,360)
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (2,299,327)       (1,646,659)              (651,642)             (345,568)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                 (170,359)                -                    406              (254,271)
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                1,737,899         1,601,236                456,815               569,055

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $                  757,106 $   (1,619,740) $          (1,683,168) $           (324,144)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                              4,718,375      2,870,365              8,885,745             1,521,513
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $                5,475,481 $    1,250,625 $            7,202,577 $           1,197,369


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                          2,198           624                   1,841                   663

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




156                                                                                                                Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                       OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)



                                                                                      The Edmonton                                   The Elk Island
                                                                                        Catholic Sep.        The Edmonton            Catholic Sep.       The Elk Island
                                                                                              School                School                 School               School
                                                                                             Division              Division               Division             Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                          $           450,762,658 $       1,232,584,246 $           69,064,661 $       199,808,772
Federal Government and other government grants                                              22,544,144             3,358,160                197,272              44,182
Property taxes                                                                              62,553,836                    -              10,726,647                   -
Fees                                                                                        17,782,155           30,529,094               3,461,483           4,774,302
Sales of services and products                                                               6,900,796            17,733,875                808,909           6,540,851
Investment income                                                                            4,320,709             7,037,088                566,791           1,141,697
Donations and other contributions                                                            6,750,280            11,558,109                411,090           1,660,157
Other revenue                                                                               12,797,870             9,880,769                358,144             435,770
   Total revenues                                                               $          584,412,448 $       1,312,681,341 $           85,594,997 $       214,405,731

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $           25,181,103 $         55,352,159 $             1,425,363 $        10,191,909
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                               431,855,729          958,020,971              63,082,762         154,209,636
Operations and maintenance                                                                  73,604,440          189,530,009              13,625,370          23,714,135
Transportation                                                                              25,609,520           47,075,286               3,139,217          16,544,403
System administration                                                                       16,949,798           39,009,545               2,826,420           4,551,787
External services                                                                            7,493,081           18,799,697                 591,513           2,034,709
   Total expenses                                                               $          580,693,671 $       1,307,787,667 $           84,690,645 $       211,246,579

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $            3,718,777 $          4,893,674 $              904,352 $          3,159,152
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                        -                    -                      -                    -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $            3,718,777 $          4,893,674 $              904,352 $          3,159,152

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                          70,603,644          192,513,839              13,190,075           8,341,434
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $           74,322,421 $        197,407,513 $            14,094,427 $        11,500,586


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $            (3,715,004) $        63,004,011 $           (9,589,657) $        2,218,648
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (1,666,108)         (45,345,785)              (519,740)         (2,325,506)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                              (10,000,000)                   -                      -                   -
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                               11,513,023           14,036,535             12,817,028           2,603,551

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $           (3,868,089) $        31,694,761 $             2,707,631 $         2,496,693
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                         36,485,998          113,551,027               8,941,961          20,912,358
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $           32,617,909 $        145,245,788 $            11,649,592 $        23,409,051


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                      43,559             105,755                   6,329              16,368

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                        157
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                (in dollars)
                                                                                                                                                      The Fort
                                                                                                                                                     McMurray
                                                                                      The Evergreen            FFCA                                    Roman
                                                                                        Catholic Sep.        Charter           The Foothills      Catholic Sep.
                                                                                              School         School                 School              School
                                                                                             Division        Society               Division            Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                          $            38,744,488 $   42,609,905 $           95,362,677 $       87,567,151
Federal Government and other government grants                                                 321,427          3,981                905,938          1,101,076
Property taxes                                                                               7,173,583              -                      -          4,295,651
Fees                                                                                           615,844      3,060,430              2,190,963            956,407
Sales of services and products                                                                 529,884        245,609                963,735          2,851,601
Investment income                                                                              307,681        200,478                492,692          1,541,102
Donations and other contributions                                                              273,538        345,299              1,440,226            948,763
Other revenue                                                                                  372,423        542,663                411,279            512,132
   Total revenues                                                              $            48,338,868 $   47,008,365 $          101,767,510 $       99,773,883

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                              $             1,682,433 $    2,188,574 $            2,008,574 $        7,025,259
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                34,700,568     32,140,566             76,228,169         71,329,548
Operations and maintenance                                                                   7,938,781      5,882,433             15,039,351         14,332,173
Transportation                                                                                 444,092      5,207,937              5,751,494          2,332,558
System administration                                                                        1,761,853      1,848,229              3,112,427          3,104,070
External services                                                                              163,591        124,946                      -          2,175,422
   Total expenses                                                              $            46,691,318 $   47,392,685 $          102,140,015 $      100,299,030

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                             $             1,647,550 $    (384,320) $             (372,505) $        (525,147)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                        -              -                      -                  -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                       $             1,647,550 $    (384,320) $             (372,505) $        (525,147)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                           4,285,364     13,399,796              7,264,245         22,438,772
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                   $             5,932,914 $   13,015,476 $            6,891,740 $       21,913,625


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                 $             1,402,400 $   (2,104,365) $           3,302,409 $          493,967
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                  (792,677)    (3,947,998)            (1,997,956)        (1,047,099)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                               1,000,000        (65,547)                     -            110,455
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                 211,815      3,725,440              1,274,121            251,314

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               $             1,821,538 $   (2,392,470) $           2,578,574 $         (191,363)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                          4,007,161      4,016,880              6,193,122         34,701,447
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                  $             5,828,699 $    1,624,410 $            8,771,696 $       34,510,084


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                      3,740          3,463                  7,530              5,879

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




158                                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                    OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                   (in dollars)
                                                                                                                                                    The Grande
                                                                                                                                                        Prairie
                                                                                                 The Fort      The Fort           The Golden            Roman
                                                                                            McMurray          Vermilion                  Hills     Catholic Sep.
                                                                                              School            School                School             School
                                                                                             Division          Division              Division           Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $          104,118,182 $     51,998,769 $          87,962,242 $       65,178,790
Federal Government and other government grants                                                 140,392        6,097,567             2,030,615            232,535
Property taxes                                                                                           -            -                     -          5,213,993
Fees                                                                                             1,760,564       58,156             4,015,472          1,587,189
Sales of services and products                                                                 892,051        1,327,129             9,705,543            887,841
Investment income                                                                              971,831          257,004             1,009,585            685,128
Donations and other contributions                                                              670,551          929,505               444,553            780,590
Other revenue                                                                                  756,304          418,218             1,407,805            718,900
   Total revenues                                                               $          109,309,875 $     61,086,348 $         106,575,815 $       75,284,966

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $           10,847,101 $      1,375,070 $           1,125,951 $        3,129,954
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                73,383,049       43,626,212            75,927,176         52,288,913
Operations and maintenance                                                                  21,558,343        8,409,608            11,814,394         14,236,174
Transportation                                                                               2,089,118        4,340,324             5,434,609          3,883,933
System administration                                                                        3,257,701        2,226,813             3,279,806          2,168,012
External services                                                                                    -        1,198,992             5,163,332            697,727
   Total expenses                                                               $          111,135,312 $     61,177,019 $         102,745,268 $       76,404,713

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $            (1,825,437) $      (90,671) $          3,830,547 $       (1,119,747)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                            -            -                     -                  -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $            (1,825,437) $      (90,671) $          3,830,547 $       (1,119,747)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                          19,305,616       21,738,156            27,446,481         28,581,960
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $           17,480,179 $     21,647,485 $          31,277,028 $       27,462,213


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $             1,342,899 $     (2,155,355) $          1,457,190 $      (4,534,770)
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (3,920,975)     (18,382,863)           (6,605,700)       (3,577,538)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                1,384,402                -               750,000         2,042,323
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                1,203,442       17,587,219             3,775,919         2,568,534

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $                9,768 $      (2,950,999) $          (622,591) $      (3,501,451)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                         19,961,007         6,641,430           13,277,400          7,352,438
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $           19,970,775 $       3,690,431 $         12,654,809 $        3,850,987


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                          6,669         2,882                6,526              4,793

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                  159
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                     (in dollars)


                                                                                                                                                          The Greater
                                                                                          The Grande           The Grande                                North Central
                                                                                               Prairie         Yellowhead           The Grasslands       Francophone
                                                                                                  School           School                   School          Education
                                                                                                 Division         Division                 Division           Region
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $          107,706,309 $        60,943,179 $             49,978,562 $       74,527,719
Federal Government and other government grants                                                    875,808           21,259                 495,513           3,419,357
Property taxes                                                                                          -                -                       -                   -
Fees                                                                                             2,051,811         467,344                 497,599             443,124
Sales of services and products                                                               1,352,593             215,756                  737,109            228,595
Investment income                                                                              846,271           1,041,562                  371,174            282,717
Donations and other contributions                                                              843,769             784,012                  164,749            471,964
Other revenue                                                                                  220,307              59,219                  151,110            239,305
   Total revenues                                                               $          113,896,868 $        63,532,331 $             52,395,816 $       79,612,781

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $                3,739,060 $     2,664,402 $              1,805,422 $        3,897,623
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                81,834,303          43,970,239               37,465,087         44,883,754
Operations and maintenance                                                                  20,624,480           9,309,046                7,468,018         12,509,554
Transportation                                                                                   2,940,690       4,715,179                3,035,640          9,690,939
System administration                                                                            3,236,118       2,280,086                2,150,320          2,270,695
External services                                                                              807,506             550,571                  419,898          1,071,915
   Total expenses                                                               $          113,182,157 $        63,489,523 $             52,344,385 $       74,324,480

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $                 714,711 $         42,808 $                51,431 $         5,288,301
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                           -                -                       -                   -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $                 714,711 $         42,808 $                51,431 $         5,288,301

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                          15,648,702           7,641,455                9,679,351          6,689,884
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $           16,363,413 $         7,684,263 $              9,730,782 $       11,978,185


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $                1,830,421 $      3,381,006 $              (398,900) $       8,089,014
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                      (655,711)      (1,739,507)             (2,128,893)        (6,997,785)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                           -                -                       -            700,000
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                    (181,653)       1,121,374               1,717,222          3,502,015

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $              993,057 $         2,762,873 $               (810,571) $       5,293,244
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                         12,413,839          17,268,994                8,158,115          3,525,962
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $           13,406,896 $        20,031,867 $              7,347,544 $        8,819,206


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                          7,982           4,171                    3,213              3,685

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




160                                                                                                                 Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                          OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                        (in dollars)
                                                                                         The Greater
                                                                                            St. Albert
                                                                                              Roman                                                       The Holy Family
                                                                                        Catholic Sep.        The High Prairie            Holden             Catholic Sep.
                                                                                              School                 School               Rural                   School
                                                                                             Division               Division           Academy                   Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                          $            57,827,333 $           42,697,860 $        1,803,595 $             29,714,886
Federal Government and other government grants                                                 556,660              4,591,661                  -                3,295,703
Property taxes                                                                               8,724,429                     -                  -                 1,422,949
Fees                                                                                         3,103,720               387,365             21,305                   103,702
Sales of services and products                                                                 916,913                999,270              1,127                  148,278
Investment income                                                                              730,544                396,940              1,977                  530,434
Donations and other contributions                                                              261,876                460,497             79,104                  136,112
Other revenue                                                                                  616,993                102,263              1,647                  135,644
   Total revenues                                                              $            72,738,468 $           49,635,856 $        1,908,755 $             35,487,708

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                              $             3,243,923 $            1,573,984 $                - $              1,091,536
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                51,885,210             36,653,569          1,034,724               24,046,824
Operations and maintenance                                                                  10,868,226              5,581,479           397,733                 5,835,590
Transportation                                                                               2,831,006              4,136,163           302,355                   742,602
System administration                                                                        2,977,543              2,358,833            196,092                1,454,258
External services                                                                              327,163                      -                  -                  379,676
   Total expenses                                                              $            72,133,071 $           50,304,028 $        1,930,904 $             33,550,486

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                             $                 605,397 $           (668,172) $         (22,149) $             1,937,222
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                         -                     -                  -                         -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                       $                 605,397 $           (668,172) $         (22,149) $             1,937,222

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                           5,745,814             14,216,097            (89,266)               8,831,827
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                   $             6,351,211 $           13,547,925 $         (111,415) $            10,769,049


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                 $             2,816,863 $               61,124 $           92,405 $              (1,572,951)
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                (4,608,115)            (1,890,341)           (32,492)                 (963,246)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                       -                      -           (128,000)                        -
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                 551,328                764,389              9,800                   260,240

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               $            (1,239,924) $          (1,064,828) $        (58,287) $             (2,275,957)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                         12,089,101              6,851,426           157,937                10,726,354
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                  $            10,849,177 $            5,786,598 $          99,650 $               8,450,397


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                        5,113                2,399                 92                     1,430

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                           161
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)


                                                                                       The Holy Spirit                               The Lakeland
                                                                                             Roman                                        Roman
                                                                                        Catholic Sep.          The Horizon           Catholic Sep.     The Lethbridge
                                                                                                  School           School                  School              School
                                                                                                 Division         Division                Division            Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $            56,153,517 $        49,854,903 $           33,419,610 $       135,511,640
Federal Government and other government grants                                                   2,117,133                -              1,985,256            582,146
Property taxes                                                                                   6,868,777                -              3,159,543                  -
Fees                                                                                              921,048          741,271                 877,551           1,984,669
Sales of services and products                                                                  623,936           1,072,347                659,648           1,989,317
Investment income                                                                               187,811             402,143                 15,901             693,043
Donations and other contributions                                                               735,509             543,966                392,727           1,791,014
Other revenue                                                                                   243,404             114,254                 65,042             149,821
   Total revenues                                                               $            67,851,135 $        52,728,884 $           40,575,278 $       142,701,650

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $                2,921,853 $      1,497,761 $            1,538,375 $         6,559,486
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                 49,015,662          37,413,229             28,297,186         109,930,324
Operations and maintenance                                                                   10,384,292           7,615,910              5,008,498          18,344,007
Transportation                                                                                   2,847,664        3,732,164              3,252,615           4,418,346
System administration                                                                            2,991,161        1,966,896              1,953,848           4,256,162
External services                                                                                     -             633,464                175,673             512,695
   Total expenses                                                               $            68,160,632 $        52,859,424 $           40,226,195 $       144,021,020

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $                (309,497) $       (130,540) $             349,083 $        (1,319,370)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                           -                 -                      -                   -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $                (309,497) $       (130,540) $             349,083 $        (1,319,370)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                               8,938,232        8,631,721              4,899,733          15,038,212
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $                8,628,735 $      8,501,181 $            5,248,816 $        13,718,842


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $             1,380,404 $       (12,534,862) $           2,299,334 $           152,686
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (3,339,646)         (1,665,120)              (746,709)         (4,070,316)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                  (10,204)            296,056               (647,927)          5,013,785
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                2,859,466          15,503,205                709,943           1,843,516

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $               890,020 $         1,599,279 $            1,614,641 $         2,939,670
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                          15,593,116           2,680,569              2,378,630          10,362,471
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $            16,483,136 $         4,279,848 $            3,993,271 $        13,302,141


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                          4,697            3,137                  2,437              11,314

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




162                                                                                                                  Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                           OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                          (in dollars)


                                                                                            The Living                               The Medicine Hat
                                                                                              Waters            The Livingstone               Roman
                                                                                         Catholic Sep.                   Range           Catholic Sep.       The Medicine Hat
                                                                                                   School               School                 School                  School
                                                                                                  Division             Division               Division                Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $            27,232,721 $            51,025,630 $           30,412,972 $            85,670,149
Federal Government and other government grants                                                      13,341            2,478,550                      -                       -
Property taxes                                                                                   1,198,150                    -              4,456,439                       -
Fees                                                                                               478,743              785,030                933,868               1,741,752
Sales of services and products                                                                  208,422               1,546,255              2,402,937               4,562,220
Investment income                                                                               264,438                 336,201                253,503                 770,290
Donations and other contributions                                                               192,921                 509,240                214,242               1,029,100
Other revenue                                                                                 1,391,169                 541,813                 80,333                  87,282
   Total revenues                                                               $            30,979,905 $            57,222,719 $           38,754,294 $            93,860,793

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $                  607,903 $          1,714,980 $            2,050,689 $             8,631,545
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                 19,485,588              40,797,808             27,577,402              68,831,598
Operations and maintenance                                                                    9,131,175               8,789,812              5,050,776              11,666,515
Transportation                                                                                      73,260            3,478,207              1,944,179               3,008,793
System administration                                                                            1,477,776            2,630,136              1,646,662               3,108,174
External services                                                                               126,340                       -                851,909                 769,945
   Total expenses                                                               $            30,902,042 $            57,410,943 $           39,121,617 $            96,016,570

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $                   77,863 $           (188,224) $            (367,323) $           (2,155,777)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                            -                    -                      -                  61,350
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $                   77,863 $           (188,224) $            (367,323) $           (2,094,427)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                           11,167,283               9,590,869              3,564,117              22,844,558
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $            11,245,146 $             9,402,645 $            3,196,794 $            20,750,131


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $                   108,468 $        10,295,986 $              289,117 $            (2,512,487)
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                     (1,028,206)         (2,209,648)            (1,582,696)             (2,462,921)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                            -              (6,887)                     -                 948,175
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                      329,604             301,928              1,075,226               1,612,988

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $                 (590,134) $         8,381,379 $             (218,353) $           (2,414,246)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                              4,618,158            7,263,457              5,214,765              11,557,094
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $                4,028,024 $         15,644,836 $            4,996,412 $             9,142,849


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                          1,611                3,278                  2,550                    6,065

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                              163
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                       (in dollars)


                                                                                       Mother Earth's
                                                                                            Children's         New Horizons           New Humble        The Northern
                                                                                              Charter               Charter            Community            Gateway
                                                                                                  School            School                 School            School
                                                                                                  Society           Society            Association          Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $                 735,475 $        4,864,469 $           1,970,328 $       66,237,804
Federal Government and other government grants                                                    269,058                  -                     -          2,484,602
Property taxes                                                                                          -                  -                     -                  -
Fees                                                                                                    -           132,214                 21,904           978,662
Sales of services and products                                                                      10,203             2,089                 5,700            951,725
Investment income                                                                                    4,216            17,366                17,233            654,409
Donations and other contributions                                                                  455,555            34,082                76,488            334,929
Other revenue                                                                                        6,250            17,228                 4,757                  -
   Total revenues                                                               $                1,480,757 $       5,067,448 $           2,096,410 $       71,642,131

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $                       - $         108,261 $               69,029 $        2,752,367
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                      859,440          3,715,231             1,374,642         48,600,164
Operations and maintenance                                                                        621,047            890,006               157,690          9,108,162
Transportation                                                                                    118,151            64,929                 42,317          6,197,231
System administration                                                                             144,121           229,005                215,683          2,562,427
External services                                                                                        -            41,284                     -            692,403
   Total expenses                                                               $                1,742,759 $       5,048,716 $           1,859,361 $       69,912,754

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $                (262,002) $         18,732 $              237,049 $        1,729,377
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                           -                 -                      -                  -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $                (262,002) $         18,732 $              237,049 $        1,729,377

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                                278,632          1,411,377               552,003         15,559,409
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $                  16,630 $        1,430,109 $             789,052 $       17,288,786


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $                (130,240) $        (100,788) $            307,378 $        3,593,158
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                       33,651                  -              (683,027)        (1,141,018)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                    252,852             (5,379)                    -                  -
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                   (108,200)                 -               226,280            613,393

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $                  48,063 $         (106,167) $           (149,369) $       3,065,533
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                                 7,933            767,323             1,124,477         12,870,643
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $                  55,996 $          661,156 $             975,108 $       15,936,176


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                             1                408                   107              4,222

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




164                                                                                                                   Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                         OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                        (in dollars)



                                                                                         The Northern                                  The Northwest
                                                                                                   Lights      The Northland            Francophone         The Palliser
                                                                                                  School             School                Education            School
                                                                                                 Division           Division                 Region            Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $            79,027,731 $          44,692,832 $            11,614,492 $      104,178,677
Federal Government and other government grants                                                7,734,101             9,085,837                 553,840            709,275
Property taxes                                                                                          -                   -                      -                   -
Fees                                                                                              651,364                   -                137,258           2,540,215
Sales of services and products                                                                2,137,779             1,232,082                 108,427          2,651,200
Investment income                                                                               102,598               938,764                  22,630            745,261
Donations and other contributions                                                             2,038,932               326,770                 136,587            555,304
Other revenue                                                                                   131,521               901,288                 157,517          2,033,445
   Total revenues                                                               $            91,824,026 $          57,177,573 $            12,730,752 $      113,413,377

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $             3,877,222 $                   - $               624,756 $        3,132,655
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                 69,086,669            37,827,027               7,812,186         89,893,987
Operations and maintenance                                                                   11,544,627            10,090,129               2,597,372         11,829,960
Transportation                                                                                6,597,362             4,167,928               1,222,293          4,790,982
System administration                                                                            2,887,676          4,596,187                749,765           3,641,381
External services                                                                                  720,185          2,096,225                341,098             652,216
   Total expenses                                                               $            94,713,741 $          58,777,496 $            13,347,471 $      113,941,181

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $            (2,889,715) $         (1,599,923) $             (616,719) $        (527,804)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                         -                     -                       -              2,275
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $            (2,889,715) $         (1,599,923) $             (616,719) $        (525,529)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                           13,245,122            20,993,560               1,753,229         12,867,473
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $            10,355,407 $          19,393,637 $             1,136,511 $       12,341,944


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $             5,184,443 $         (14,968,094) $              547,978 $        5,926,896
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (2,815,014)           (5,639,199)             (1,053,896)       (13,914,506)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                 (696,945)                    -                  (5,950)            (6,744)
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                  129,595             8,783,257                (934,373)        12,399,525

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $                1,802,079 $      (11,824,036) $           (1,446,241) $       4,405,171
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                              7,610,084         23,493,282               3,531,033          9,828,949
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $                9,412,163 $       11,669,246 $             2,084,792 $       14,234,120


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                          5,128              1,058                     396               8,597

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                        165
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)



                                                                                                                                     The Peace        The Pembina
                                                                                        The Parkland       The Peace River              Wapiti                Hills
                                                                                              School               School               School             School
                                                                                             Division             Division             Division           Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                          $           141,685,225 $         53,953,703 $        85,806,134 $        64,127,000
Federal Government and other government grants                                               7,368,394              431,917           2,354,075                   -
Property taxes                                                                                       -                   -                    -                   -
Fees                                                                                         3,634,699             125,277              827,177           1,354,080
Sales of services and products                                                               1,397,508              667,080           1,133,475             555,283
Investment income                                                                              941,009              239,306             525,834             483,131
Donations and other contributions                                                            1,101,029            1,127,450           1,581,513             376,047
Other revenue                                                                                  263,205              569,465             127,808             424,973
   Total revenues                                                              $           156,391,069 $         57,114,198 $        92,356,016 $        67,320,514

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                              $             6,742,465 $            783,120 $         3,055,290 $         1,288,698
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                               110,772,197           38,778,908          67,898,686          52,205,218
Operations and maintenance                                                                  19,499,582            7,752,269          11,152,636           6,917,198
Transportation                                                                              12,181,850            6,381,508           8,394,876           6,016,839
System administration                                                                        4,383,492            2,481,933           3,111,553           2,419,198
External services                                                                              370,919            1,071,641                   -             731,215
   Total expenses                                                              $           153,950,505 $         57,249,379 $        93,613,041 $        69,578,366

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                             $             2,440,564 $           (135,181) $        (1,257,025) $      (2,257,852)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                        -                    -                    -                  -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                       $             2,440,564 $           (135,181) $        (1,257,025) $      (2,257,852)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                          10,827,885           15,375,458          13,694,552          10,015,558
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                   $            13,268,449 $         15,240,277 $        12,437,527 $         7,757,706


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                 $             8,667,132 $          2,714,774 $         (2,161,454) $      (1,649,020)
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                (6,507,555)          (4,010,097)         (16,180,933)        (1,941,761)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                       -                    -            2,181,825                  -
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                               3,207,474            1,332,666           13,312,670            684,387

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               $             5,367,051 $             37,343 $         (2,847,892) $      (2,906,394)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                         14,215,858            9,230,701            6,028,611          9,928,390
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                  $            19,582,909 $          9,268,044 $          3,180,719 $        7,021,996


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                      11,201               2,746                5,494              4,627

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




166                                                                                                                  Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                             OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                           (in dollars)



                                                                                                                                          The Red Deer
                                                                                    The Prairie Land           The Prairie Rose           Catholic Sep.           The Red Deer
                                                                                              School                     School                 School                  School
                                                                                            Division                    Division               Division                Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                          $            39,217,437 $              56,359,128 $          102,873,129 $            124,123,441
Federal Government and other government grants                                                 173,649                   545,924                131,752                  176,629
Property taxes                                                                                         -                      -               8,239,214                        -
Fees                                                                                             391,963                732,638                 851,647                3,232,769
Sales of services and products                                                                 845,382                 1,980,972              2,361,080                4,351,284
Investment income                                                                              291,987                   190,314                496,340                  767,583
Donations and other contributions                                                              393,665                   535,870                524,399                  644,643
Other revenue                                                                                  129,777                   158,117              2,059,194                  528,406
   Total revenues                                                              $            41,443,860 $              60,502,963 $          117,536,755 $            133,824,753

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                              $             1,004,506 $               2,020,144 $            4,500,973 $              3,098,311
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                30,014,215                42,197,953             92,804,883              106,412,940
Operations and maintenance                                                                   6,047,898                 7,056,133             14,747,983               16,432,671
Transportation                                                                               3,117,072                 6,578,918              6,510,026                3,464,147
System administration                                                                        1,393,453                 2,229,327              3,745,328                3,930,034
External services                                                                                    -                    76,380                      -                        -
   Total expenses                                                              $            41,577,144 $              60,158,855 $          122,309,193 $            133,338,103

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                             $                 (133,284) $            344,108 $             (4,772,438) $             486,650
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                           -                     -                        -                      -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                       $                 (133,284) $            344,108 $             (4,772,438) $             486,650

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                          10,546,093                 4,089,972             22,102,597               13,907,409
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                   $            10,412,809 $               4,434,080 $           17,330,159 $             14,394,059


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                 $               (480,026) $             3,110,578 $            (4,995,088) $            4,465,990
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (3,626,891)              (7,832,060)             (5,781,967)             (3,651,739)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                 (131,192)                       -                       1                (695,433)
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                1,777,394                8,299,518               6,083,623               3,014,038

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               $             (2,460,715) $             3,578,036 $           (4,693,431) $             3,132,857
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                           3,527,837                5,463,705             12,545,606                4,372,088
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                  $              1,067,122 $              9,041,741 $            7,852,175 $              7,504,945


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                         2,241                  3,229                   8,812                  10,391

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                                 167
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                      (in dollars)



                                                                                                              The Southern
                                                                                     The Rocky View           Francophone            The St. Albert      The St. Paul
                                                                                             School              Education                 School             School
                                                                                            Division               Region                 Division           Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $           299,896,419 $        63,248,441 $           100,103,123 $      46,137,689
Federal Government and other government grants                                                  521,815             580,927                 388,577        10,178,019
Property taxes                                                                                           -               -                        -                 -
Fees                                                                                             8,923,774         671,915                4,440,183           793,586
Sales of services and products                                                                1,821,210             186,513               2,007,933           643,873
Investment income                                                                               694,858             528,728               1,196,002           276,660
Donations and other contributions                                                             2,269,464             327,500                 394,505           322,100
Other revenue                                                                                   615,181              67,712                 303,087           809,463
   Total revenues                                                               $           314,742,721 $        65,611,736 $           108,833,410 $      59,161,390

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $             8,074,080 $         2,309,513 $             4,344,868 $       1,536,664
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                239,482,223          43,849,655              82,105,225        42,066,018
Operations and maintenance                                                                   37,530,429           8,422,043              13,975,137         9,031,928
Transportation                                                                               20,115,295           8,422,413               3,243,944         3,503,207
System administration                                                                            8,968,055        2,387,941               3,090,776         2,671,774
External services                                                                                        -           22,057                 489,360           154,621
   Total expenses                                                               $           314,170,082 $        65,413,622 $           107,249,310 $      58,964,212

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $                 572,639 $        198,114 $              1,584,100 $         197,178
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                           -                -                        -                 -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $                 572,639 $        198,114 $              1,584,100 $         197,178

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                           30,146,189           5,550,400              19,858,960         1,883,455
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $            30,718,828 $         5,748,514 $            21,443,060 $       2,080,633


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $             8,640,283 $          (484,191) $           (2,734,429) $        970,223
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (8,302,755)         (2,001,589)             (2,724,052)         (958,805)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                5,514,367                   -                       -                 -
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                6,412,757           1,596,113               5,724,083         1,165,488

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $            12,264,652 $          (889,667) $              265,602 $       1,176,906
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                           5,875,634           8,971,597              20,792,443         4,302,712
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $            18,140,286 $         8,081,929 $            21,058,045 $       5,479,618


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                         26,588            3,459                   8,731             2,753

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




168                                                                                                                  Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                      OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                    (in dollars)
                                                                                     The St. Thomas
                                                                                                 Aquinas
                                                                                                  Roman           STEM                STEM
                                                                                        Catholic Sep.          Collegiate          Innovation         The Sturgeon
                                                                                              School            Canada              Academy                 School
                                                                                             Division            Society              Society              Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                          $            46,139,863 $        5,914,435 $        11,877,546 $          76,840,381
Federal Government and other government grants                                               1,183,727                  -                   -               952,078
Property taxes                                                                               5,455,270                 -                    -                     -
Fees                                                                                         1,226,548           355,570              744,686             1,822,817
Sales of services and products                                                               1,104,321                  -                   -               284,838
Investment income                                                                              297,302             19,640              95,245               776,365
Donations and other contributions                                                              206,260                  -              58,055               518,720
Other revenue                                                                                   68,452              1,780                 113               473,791
   Total revenues                                                              $            55,681,743 $        6,291,425 $        12,775,645 $          81,668,990

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                              $             1,524,882 $                - $                 - $           4,586,081
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                41,883,837          2,290,282           8,004,835            60,446,619
Operations and maintenance                                                                   8,395,940          3,061,651           3,014,557            10,894,333
Transportation                                                                               1,690,132            452,752           1,120,960             6,102,089
System administration                                                                        2,291,539            187,627             311,476             2,830,799
External services                                                                              655,088                  -                   -               376,449
   Total expenses                                                              $            56,441,418 $        5,992,312 $        12,451,828 $          85,236,370

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                             $                 (759,675) $     299,113 $            323,817 $           (3,567,380)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                           -               -                   -                      -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                       $                 (759,675) $     299,113 $            323,817 $           (3,567,380)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                           8,515,157           (18,772)             177,382            16,828,427
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                   $             7,755,482 $         280,341 $            501,199 $          13,261,047


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                 $              1,835,856 $      (2,168,754) $        1,403,397 $           (4,155,473)
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                 (2,458,292)       (1,274,099)           (697,269)            (1,695,165)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                               (1,200,000)                -                   -                      -
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                  (81,055)        1,265,732             697,269              1,499,182

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               $             (1,903,492) $     (2,177,121) $        1,403,397 $          (4,351,456)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                           5,267,766         2,952,110             684,610            15,937,324
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                  $              3,364,275 $         774,989 $         2,088,007 $          11,585,867


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                         4,263             257                 833                  4,628

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                    169
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                  (in dollars)



                                                                                                  Suzuki         Thrive                          Westmount
                                                                                                  Charter       Charter            Valhalla         Charter
                                                                                                  School        School              School          School
                                                                                                  Society       Society          Foundation         Society
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                           $                4,243,364 $   1,606,190 $         1,666,015 $    15,218,837
Federal Government and other government grants                                                           -             -             101,394               -
Property taxes                                                                                          -             -                   -                -
Fees                                                                                              118,371             -               3,621        1,481,058
Sales of services and products                                                                     237,420             -                   -               -
Investment income                                                                                    9,656        22,913                  92          57,726
Donations and other contributions                                                                   86,568     1,678,827              31,462         214,381
Other revenue                                                                                        3,466             -              13,211          37,332
   Total revenues                                                               $                4,698,845 $   3,307,930 $         1,815,795 $    17,009,334

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                               $                  104,101 $     242,655 $           44,857 $        236,755
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                     3,299,823     1,486,564            957,734       13,640,108
Operations and maintenance                                                                        533,903       646,502             254,453        1,263,190
Transportation                                                                                    224,801       345,208             323,338        1,386,091
System administration                                                                             204,050       200,071             186,586         894,046
External services                                                                                 199,339       384,265                   -         176,699
   Total expenses                                                               $                4,566,017 $   3,305,265 $         1,766,968 $    17,596,889

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                              $                 132,828 $       2,665 $            48,827 $       (587,555)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                           -             -                   -                -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                        $                 132,828 $       2,665 $            48,827 $       (587,555)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                                521,390        15,245             194,899        1,493,850
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                    $                 654,218 $      17,910 $           243,726 $        906,295


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                  $                 147,482 $     (72,978) $           40,338 $       (449,661)
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                            -      (909,411)                  -         (112,461)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                     (8,369)            -                   -                -
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                                          -       909,411             (33,056)               -

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                $                 139,113 $     (72,978) $            7,283 $       (562,122)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                               315,274       228,401             269,060        1,702,721
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                   $                 454,387 $     155,423 $           276,342 $      1,140,599


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                           343            82                  58              1,228

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




170                                                                                                              Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                                         OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                                                                       (in dollars)




                                                                                      The Westwind           The Wetaskiwin           The Wild Rose           The Wolf Creek
                                                                                                  School             School                  School                   School
                                                                                                 Division           Division                Division                 Division
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                                          $            55,860,473 $          47,539,147 $            61,457,289 $             89,519,804
Federal Government and other government grants                                               3,342,992             4,750,609               1,197,268                2,210,548
Property taxes                                                                                       -                     -                       -                        -
Fees                                                                                           814,779               413,946                 918,451                1,588,838
Sales of services and products                                                                 613,686               905,311                 760,416                1,178,942
Investment income                                                                              264,366               328,566                 478,345                  391,698
Donations and other contributions                                                            1,355,466               344,547                 703,533                1,574,363
Other revenue                                                                                  299,076               479,072                   6,002                   46,240
   Total revenues                                                              $            62,550,838 $          54,761,198 $            65,521,304 $             96,510,433

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                                              $             3,102,928 $           1,659,925 $             2,857,925 $              3,686,323
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                                                                45,483,376            39,482,991              44,954,355               72,114,281
Operations and maintenance                                                                   8,376,120             8,780,646               9,621,786               12,456,711
Transportation                                                                               2,769,027             3,219,524               6,038,870                6,329,457
System administration                                                                        2,242,598             2,475,499               2,525,910                2,678,009
External services                                                                              179,481                     -                 276,063                        -
   Total expenses                                                              $            62,153,530 $          55,618,585 $            66,274,909 $             97,264,781

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                                             $                 397,308 $          (857,387) $             (753,605) $              (754,348)
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                                                          -                   -                       -                        -
Annual surplus (deficit)                                                       $                 397,308 $          (857,387) $             (753,605) $              (754,348)

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year                                           9,491,631             6,629,460               9,807,486                8,802,685
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year                                   $             9,888,939 $           5,772,073 $             9,053,881 $              8,048,337


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                                 $            (2,554,890) $          2,028,278 $               438,705 $              3,352,415
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                                (1,615,085)             (840,056)            (11,628,024)              (6,366,305)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                                 151,734                     -                       -                  258,058
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                               4,823,710              (106,187)             10,593,890                6,340,703

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               $               805,469 $           1,082,035 $              (595,429) $             3,584,871
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                          3,814,228             5,022,760              10,862,422                6,015,434
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                                  $             4,619,697 $           6,104,795 $            10,266,993 $              9,600,305


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*                                                         3,904              2,863                   4,108                    6,883

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as 1/2 of full time equivalent enrolment.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                                              171
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions’ Statements
of Operations and Changes in Financial Position
Unaudited Summary of School Jurisdictions'
Statements of Operations and Changes
in Financial Position
For the year ended August 31, 2024
For the year ended August 31, 2024
                                                                              (in dollars)



                                                                                                               2023
                                                                 2024                         2024           Actual
                                                               Budget                        Actual          Totals
                                                                Totals                       Totals   (As restated)
REVENUES
Government of Alberta                                 $   7,947,879,601 $           8,050,631,396 $    7,648,031,834
Federal Government and other government grants              108,776,202               126,531,075        112,890,027
Property taxes                                             233,050,984                231,977,464       233,462,284
Fees                                                       195,598,887                210,185,834       194,117,182
Sales of services and products                              104,323,679               142,362,713        125,075,599
Investment income                                            35,940,706                60,431,241         52,726,768
Donations and other contributions                            64,425,403                86,943,749         66,900,630
Other revenue                                                39,947,934                57,377,866         77,369,984
  Total revenues                                      $   8,729,943,396 $           8,966,441,338 $    8,510,574,308

EXPENSES
Instruction - ECS                                     $     312,165,545 $             317,288,407 $      304,390,424
Instruction - Grades 1 to 12                              6,508,173,494             6,584,884,150      6,209,596,361
Operations and maintenance                                1,201,856,858             1,222,024,445      1,203,782,536
Transportation                                              443,368,391               441,458,733        393,526,448
System administration                                      282,179,766                286,576,914       270,377,283
External services                                           92,985,052                103,106,144        96,101,711
   Total expenses                                     $   8,840,729,106 $           8,955,338,793 $    8,477,774,763

Annual operating surplus (deficit)                    $   (110,785,710) $              11,102,545 $      32,799,545
Endowment contributions and reinvested income                   (5,000)                    63,625            22,720
Annual surplus (deficit)                              $   (110,790,710) $              11,166,170 $      32,822,265

Accumulated surplus (deficit) at beginning of year        1,170,165,137             1,170,165,139      1,137,342,874
Accumulated surplus (deficit) at end of year          $   1,059,374,427 $           1,181,331,309 $    1,170,165,139


Changes in Financial Position:
  Total cash flows from operating transactions                            $           144,346,643 $     (115,495,228)
  Total cash flows from capital transactions                                         (389,482,485)      (412,902,624)
  Total cash flows from investing transactions                                         10,209,242         18,664,369
  Total cash flows from financing transactions                                        298,382,081        334,037,662

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                          $            63,455,481 $     (175,695,821)
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of the year                                   990,850,922      1,166,546,743
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of the year                             $         1,054,306,403 $      990,850,922


Alberta Education Funded Student Enrolment*

*Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are
 counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.




172                                                                                    Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                 OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

School jurisdictions prepare their financial statements in accordance with Canadian public sector accounting
standards (PSAS). The following are significant accounting policies followed by these entities:
• Revenues and expenses are recognized on an accrual basis.
• Revenues for the provision of goods and services are recognized in the period in which the goods are
  provided or the services rendered.
• Unrestricted contributions are recognized as revenues when received or receivable.
• Capital grants that give rise to an obligation to third parties as to use and control are recorded as spent
  deferred capital contributions (SDCC). SDCC is a component of deferred contributions in the Statements
  of Financial Position of the school jurisdictions and is recognized as revenue in the period in which the
  related amortization expense of the funded asset is recorded.
• Contributions for capital assets that will not be amortized, such as land, are recorded as revenue, unless the
  asset must be held for restricted purposes. If donated land must be used for restricted purposes, revenue is
  deferred.
• Capital asset additions are recorded at cost and amortized based on amortization policies set by school
  jurisdictions.
• Donated assets are recorded at fair value where fair value can be reasonably determined.
• Inventories held for resale are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined on a
  first-in, first-out basis or weighted average cost.
• Investments are recorded at fair value.
• Asset retirement obligations (capitalized and liabilities) are recorded at cost or present value technique.
  Capitalized asset retirement obligations additions are then amortized based on amortization policies set by
  school jurisdictions.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                         173
    OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



    Disclosure of Salaries and Benefits for
    Superintendent Positions - Unaudited
    Disclosure of Salaries and Benefits for
    Superintendent Positions (Unaudited)
    For  the
    For the   year
            Year    ended
                 Ended     August
                       August 31, 202431, 2024

                                                                            (in dollars)
                                                                                                    Benefits &
                             School Jurisdiction                                 Remuneration       Allowances        Other         Total
    Aspen View Public School Division                                          $          175,000 $        50,809 $     14,166 $      239,975
    Battle River School Division                                                          212,857         128,004           -         340,861
    Black Gold School Division                                                            242,838          44,758           -         287,596
    Buffalo Trail School Division                                                         195,540          51,492       10,625        257,657
    Calgary Roman Catholic Separate School Division                                       309,067          27,867       13,307        350,241
    Calgary School Division                                                               271,451          51,914      190,376        513,741
    Canadian Rockies School Division                                                      305,636          41,841 -      9,985        337,492
    Chinook's Edge School Division                                                        225,584          56,640           -         282,224
    Christ the Redeemer Catholic Separate School Division                                 227,660          55,689       20,388        303,737
    Clearview School Division                                                             184,500          26,929           -         211,429
    East Central Alberta Catholic Separate Schools Division                               188,240          55,067           -         243,307
    East Central Francophone Education Region                                             215,199          27,301           -         242,500
    Edmonton Catholic Separate School Division                                            247,600          44,993       25,000        317,593
    Edmonton School Division                                                              302,259          58,861       20,740        381,860
    Elk Island Catholic Separate School Division                                          220,384          44,627           -         265,011
    Elk Island Public School Division                                                     224,214          51,596        2,529        278,339
    Evergreen Catholic Separate School Division                                           195,638          41,896           -         237,534
    Foothills School Division                                                             220,000          50,366           -         270,366
    Fort McMurray Roman Catholic Separate School Division                                 185,000          50,948           -         235,948
    Fort McMurray School Division                                                         217,966          79,410           -         297,376
    Fort Vermilion School Division                                                        226,161          65,385           -         291,546
    Golden Hills School Division                                                          220,855          23,679           -         244,534
    Grande Prairie Roman Catholic Separate School Division                                200,679          23,397           -         224,076
    Grande Prairie School Division                                                        228,000          31,351           -         259,351
    Grande Yellowhead School Division                                                     208,406          47,164           -         255,570
    Grasslands School Division                                                            203,373          45,353 -     19,000        229,726
    Greater North Central Francophone Education Region                                    200,527          38,449           -         238,976
    Greater St. Albert Roman Catholic Separate School Division                            231,507          68,571           -         300,078
    High Prairie School Division                                                          202,085          24,989        5,000        232,074
    Holy Family Catholic Separate School Division                                         195,582          25,223       16,942        237,747
    Holy Spirit Roman Catholic Separate School Division                                   194,344          41,076           -         235,420
    Horizon School Division                                                               214,576          18,709           -         233,285
    Lakeland Roman Catholic Separate School Division                                      192,013          48,065           -         240,078
    Lethbridge School Division                                                            210,000          48,522           -         258,522
    Living Waters Catholic Separate School Division                                       192,634          50,514           -         243,148
    Livingstone Range School Division                                                     214,157          48,829           -         262,986
    Medicine Hat Roman Catholic Separate School Division                                  193,800          49,283       23,107        266,190
    Medicine Hat School Division                                                          205,447          64,824           -         270,271
    Northern Gateway School Division                                                      203,057          22,838       14,139        240,034
    Northern Lights School Division                                                       232,936          51,088           -         284,024
    Northland School Division                                                             231,659          37,324        7,500        276,483
    Northwest Francophone Education Region                                                178,517          16,749           -         195,266
    Palliser School Division                                                              244,938          73,390           -         318,328
    Parkland School Division                                                              240,277          61,428           -         301,705
    Peace River School Division                                                           192,960          33,302           -         226,262
    Peace Wapiti School Division                                                          208,371          57,345           -         265,716
    Pembina Hills School Division                                                         212,258          25,700           -         237,958
    Prairie Land School Division                                                          222,750          41,571           -         264,321
    Prairie Rose School Division                                                          199,054          55,144           -         254,198
    Red Deer Catholic Separate School Division                                            214,521          27,093           -         241,614
    Red Deer School Division                                                              216,300          29,544           -         245,844
    Rocky View School Division                                                            226,739          62,484           -         289,223
    Southern Francophone Education Region                                                 173,388          20,798           -         194,186
    St. Albert School Division                                                            240,157          49,933       19,949        310,039
    *Early Childhood Services (ECS) children are counted as ½ of full time equivalent enrolment.
    St. Paul School Division                                                              206,000          19,414           -         225,414
    St. Thomas Aquinas Roman Catholic Separate School Division                            200,297          54,572           -         254,869
    Sturgeon School Division                                                              203,000          44,958       35,574        283,532



    174                                                                                                               Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025

#   Classification: Protected A
                                                                                                                 OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Disclosure of Salaries and Benefits for
Superintendent Positions - Unaudited (continued)
Disclosure of Salaries and Benefits for
Superintendent Positions (Unaudited)
For  theYear
For the  year  ended
             Ended    August
                   August        31, 2024
                          31, 2024

                                                                      (in dollars)
                                                                                          Benefits &
                      School Jurisdiction                          Remuneration           Allowances             Other          Total
Westwind School Division                                          $         203,419   $         54,331       $        -     $     257,750
Wetaskiwin School Division                                                  207,629             54,935             10,138         272,702
Wild Rose School Division                                                   207,570             53,198                -           260,768
Wolf Creek School Division                                                  217,401             47,870                -           265,271

Footnotes:
1. This information is taken from the notes to the Audited Financial Statements submitted to Alberta Education by the School Jurisdictions.
2. Remuneration includes regular base salaries, administrative allowances, overtime, lump-sum payments, honoraria, deferred salary leave,
   accruals and any other direct cash remuneration.
3. Benefits include the employer's share of all employee benefits and contributions or payments made on behalf of employees.
   This includes retirement pension (including Alberta Teacher Retirement Fund contributions made by Alberta Education on behalf of the school
   jurisdictions), supplementary pensions plans, Canada Pension Plan (CPP), Employment Insurance (EI), health care, dental coverage, vision
   coverage, out-of-country, medical benefits, group life insurance, accidental disability and dismemberment insurance and disability plans.
4. Allowances include all monies paid to an employee as negotiated allowances. This category includes car or travel allowance, isolation
   allowances, relocation expenses, sabbaticals, special leave with pay, financial and retirement planning services, and club memberships.
5. Other includes payments made for such things as performance bonuses, accrued vacations and termination benefits (severance pay,
  retiring allowances, sick leave, vacation payouts, or other settlement costs due to loss of employment).




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                           175
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund Board

Teachers’ Pension Plan and Private School Teachers’ Pension Plan

Financial Statements
August 31, 2024

      Management’s Responsibility for Financial Reporting
      Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting
      Auditor General’s letter – Report on the Financial Statements
      Aon – Actuaries’ Opinion
      Statement of Financial Position
      Statement of Changes in Net Assets Available for Benefits
      Statement of Changes in Pension Obligations
      Notes to the Financial Statements




176                                                                   Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                             OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




                                        Audited

                                        Financial
                                        Statements
                          ̧̥Ψ Management’s Responsibility for Financial Reporting
                          ̧̦ Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting
                          ̧̧ Auditor General’s letter – Report on the Financial Statements
                          ̧̪ Aon – Actuaries’ Opinion
                          ̧̫ Statement of Financial Position
                          ̧̬ Statement of Changes in ^et Assets Available for eneƅts
                          ̨̣ Statement of Changes in Pension Obligations
                          ̨̤    Notes to the Financial Statements




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                177
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




Management’s Responsibility for Financial Reporting
Management’s
Internal Control Responsibility For Financial Reporting
                 Over Financial Reporting

ATRFfinancial
The   business statements  of the
                 plans include     Alberta
                                action     Teachers’
                                       plans          Retirement
                                             to enhance   governance    Board
                                                                  Fundand     and all information
                                                                           management     of internal   the Annual
                                                                                                     in control            are
                                                                                                                    Reportand
                                                                                                                processes
the responsibility  of management     and  have been  approved   by the Board. The financial  statements    have
systems. This is aimed at providing an appropriate level of due diligence and assurance in our internal controls,been
prepared   in accordance
financial operations,      with Canadian
                       reporting,          accounting
                                   and information     standards for pension plans. Where necessary, management has
                                                    systems.
made informed judgments and estimates of the outcome of events and transactions, with due consideration to
ATRF is not Financial
materiality.  required and  operating
                       by law          data presented
                               or regulation  to performinthis
                                                           the annual Report, where
                                                               Annualevaluation. We applicable,
                                                                                      have chosen  is to
                                                                                                      consistent
                                                                                                         perform with
                                                                                                                  this the
financial statements.
evaluation and meet these standards as a part of our commitment to strong corporate governance and
accountability.
For the integrity of financial information included in this Annual Report, management relies on the organization’s
system
The Chiefof Executive
            internal controls
                       Officer and
                               and supporting  procedures.
                                   the Vice President         This system
                                                        of Finance          has been for
                                                                     are responsible  established
                                                                                          the designto and
                                                                                                       ensure  within reasonable
                                                                                                            maintenance   of
limits that  assets are safeguarded,  transactions  are executed    in accordance   with management’s      authorization,
Internal Control over Financial Reporting, to provide reasonable assurance that it is reliable and that the preparation   and
accounting    records
of the financial       are properly
                  statements        maintained.
                               conforms          Controls
                                         with Canadian      include high-quality
                                                         Accounting     Standards standards        hiringThey
                                                                                   for pensionforplans.        training
                                                                                                          andare   also
employees,    an organizational  structure that provides   a well-defined   division of responsibilities  and accountability
responsible for the design and maintenance of disclosure controls and procedures to provide reasonable assurance             for
performance,    and  the communication    of policies and  guidelines   throughout   the
that all material information is gathered and reported to management on a timely basis.   organization.


We have responsibility
Ultimate  completed thefor   the financial
                          2023-24           statements
                                     fiscal year         restsofwith
                                                  evaluation     the the  Board, which
                                                                      effectiveness      is assisted
                                                                                     of our                     over financialby the
                                                                                                         its responsibilities
                                                                                             internalincontrol
reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon the results of the evaluation, the Chiefauditor,
staff and the Audit and  Finance   Committee.     The  Alberta  Teachers’  Retirement   Fund   Board’s   external           the
                                                                                                                    Executive
Auditor  General, has  conducted    an  independent    examination    of the financial statements    in accordance
Officer and Vice President, Finance have concluded that internal control over financial reporting and disclosure      with  Canadian
generally  accepted
controls and         auditing
              procedures   are standards,   performing
                                properly designed     andsuch   tests and
                                                          operated    effectively throughoutas
                                                                           other procedures            considers necessary to
                                                                                                   heyear.
                                                                                                 the
express the opinion in his report. The Auditor General has full, unrestricted access to discuss the audit and related
findings regarding
There were          the integrity
             no significant changesof financial
                                       made in reporting,   and the
                                                 internal controls     adequacy
                                                                    over  financial  internal control
                                                                                  ofreporting   during systems.
                                                                                                         the year ended August 31,
2024, that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting.




[Original Signed by Rod Matheson]                                    [Original Signed by Myles Norton]
_______________________                                                __________        __ _____________
Rod  MathesonCPA,
Rod Matheson      CPA,CMA,
                        CMA,CFA,
                             CFA,ICD.D
                                   ICD.D                             Myles
                                                                       MylesNorton
                                                                              NortonCPA,
                                                                                       CPA,CMA,
                                                                                             CMA,CFACFA
Chief Executive
      ExecutiveOfficer
                  Officer                                              Vice
                                                                     Vice   President,Finance
                                                                          President,   Finance

November 7, 2024




178                                                                                         Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                      OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

ATRF business plans include action plans to enhance governance and management of internal control processes and
systems. This is aimed at providing an appropriate level of due diligence and assurance in our internal controls,
financial operations, reporting, and information systems.

ATRF is not required by law or regulation to perform this annual evaluation. We have chosen to perform this
evaluation and meet these standards as a part of our commitment to strong corporate governance and
accountability.

The Chief Executive Officer and the Vice President of Finance are responsible for the design and maintenance of
Internal Control over Financial Reporting, to provide reasonable assurance that it is reliable and that the preparation
of the financial statements conforms with Canadian Accounting Standards for pension plans. They are also
responsible for the design and maintenance of disclosure controls and procedures to provide reasonable assurance
that all material information is gathered and reported to management on a timely basis.

We have completed the 2023-24 fiscal year evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon the results of the evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Vice President, Finance have concluded that internal control over financial reporting and disclosure
controls and procedures are properly designed and operated effectively throughout the year.

There were no significant changes made in internal controls over financial reporting during the year ended August 31,
2024, that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting.




[Original Signed by Rod Matheson]                                 [Original Signed by Myles Norton]

Rod Matheson CPA, CMA, CFA, ICD.D                                 Myles Norton CPA, CMA, CFA
Chief Executive Officer                                           Vice President, Finance

November 7, 2024




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                               179
         OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




        Independent Auditor’s Report


        To the Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund Board


        Report on the Financial Statements

        Opinion
        I have audited the financial statements of Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund Board, which
        comprise the statement of financial position as at August 31, 2024, and the statements of changes in
        net assets available for benefits, and changes in pension obligations for the year then ended, and
        notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.

        In my opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
        financial position of Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund Board as at August 31, 2024, and the
        changes in net assets available for benefits, and changes in its pension obligations for the year then
        ended in accordance with Canadian accounting standards for pension plans.

        Basis for opinion
        I conducted my audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards. My
        responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities for the
        Audit of the Financial Statements section of my report. I am independent of Alberta Teachers’
        Retirement Fund Board in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to my audit of
        the financial statements in Canada, and I have fulfilled my other ethical responsibilities in
        accordance with these requirements. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient
        and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion.

        Other information
        Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
        information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and my
        auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made available to me after the date of
        this auditor’s report.

        My opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and I do not express
        any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

        In connection with my audit of the financial statements, my responsibility is to read the other
        information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
        inconsistent with the financial statements or my knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
        appears to be materially misstated.

        If, based on the work I will perform on this other information, I conclude that there is a material
        misstatement of this other information, I am required to communicate the matter to those charged
        with governance.




Classification:
   44           Public
          ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT



         180                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                           OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




        Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for the financial
        statements
        Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in
        accordance with Canadian accounting standards for pension plans, and for such internal control as
        management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are
        free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

        In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing Alberta Teachers’
        Retirement Fund Board’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
        related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless an intention exists
        to liquidate or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so.

        Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund
        Board’s financial reporting process.

        Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
        My objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a
        whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an
        auditor's report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is
        not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing
        standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
        fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
        be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
        statements.

        As part of an audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards, I exercise
        professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. I also:
        • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due
            to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain
            audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of
            not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
            error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
            override of internal control.
        • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
            procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
            opinion on the effectiveness of Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund Board’s internal control.
        • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
            estimates and related disclosures made by management.
        • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting
            and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to
            events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund
            Board’s ability to continue as a going concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I
            am required to draw attention in my auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial
            statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify my opinion. My conclusions are
            based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of my auditor’s report. However, future
            events or conditions may cause Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund Board to cease to continue
            as a going concern.




Classification: Public
         Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                       ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT   45   181
         OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                  A
            Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including                      Ao
             the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions                          Ao
                                                                                                                                  ex
             and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.                                                              ex
                                                                                                                                  Au
                                                                                                                                  Au
                                                                                                                                  the
        I communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned                              the
                                                                                                                                  46
        scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in                   46
        internal control that I identify during my audit.
                                                                                                                                  Ou
                                                                                                                                  Ou
                                                                                                                                  •
        [Original signed by W. Doug Wylie FCPA, FCMA, ICD.D]                                                                      •
        Auditor General
                                                                                                                                  •
                                                                                                                                  ••
        December 12, 2024                                                                                                          ••
        Edmonton, Alberta
                                                                                                                                    •
                                                                                                                                  Ba
                                                                                                                                  Ba
                                                                                                                                  da
                                                                                                                                  da
                                                                                                                                  •
                                                                                                                                  ••
                                                                                                                                   •
                                                                                                                                  •
                                                                                                                                  •
                                                                                                                                  •
                                                                                                                                  •
                                                                                                                                  Wh
                                                                                                                                  Wh
                                                                                                                                  es
                                                                                                                                  es
                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                  wi
                                                                                                                                  wi
                                                                                                                                  Ou
                                                                                                                                  Ou
                                                                                                                                  ac
                                                                                                                                  ac




                                                                                                                                  [Or

                                                                                                                                  Br
                                                                                                                                  Br
                                                                                                                                  Fe
                                                                                                                                  Fe
                                                                                                                                  Fe
                                                                                                                                  Fe




                                                                                                                                  [Or

                                                                                                                                  Na
                                                                                                                                  Na
                                                                                                                                  Fe
                                                                                                                                  Fe
                                                                                                                                  Fe
                                                                                                                                  Fe
                                                                                                                                  De
                                                                                                                                  De

Classification: Public
       46182 ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                          Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                                              OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




Actuaries' Opinion
Actuaries' Opinion
Actuaries' Opinion
Aon has been engaged by the Alberta Teachers' Retirement Fund Board ("ATRF") to prepare actuarial
Aon      has been engaged
extrapolations                by the Alberta
                     for the Teachers'    PensionTeachers'
                                                     Plan and  Retirement
                                                                 the PrivateFund     Board
                                                                                School       ("ATRF")
                                                                                          Teachers'   Pension   Plan actuarial
                                                                                                        to prepare    (the "Plans") as at
Aon has been engaged          by the Alberta     Teachers'     Retirement     Fund   Board   ("ATRF")   to prepare    actuarial
extrapolations
August      31,  2024forbased
                         the Teachers'
                               on  the    Pension
                                        August   31, Plan
                                                      2023 and   the Private
                                                              valuations.    TheSchool
                                                                                  purpose Teachers'
                                                                                             of these Pension   Plan (the
                                                                                                       extrapolations    is "Plans")  as at
                                                                                                                            to determine
extrapolations for the Teachers' Pension Plan and the Private School Teachers' Pension Plan (the
August
the         31, 2024
        necessary       based information
                    actuarial  on the August for 31,  2023 valuations.
                                                  financial   statement      The purpose
                                                                            reporting   for  of these
                                                                                            the  Plans extrapolations
                                                                                                        in  accordance   is
                                                                                                                            "Plans")  as at
                                                                                                                            to determine
                                                                                                                          with  Section
                                                                                                                                               Actuaries' Opinion
   August 31, 2024 based on the August 31, 2023 valuations. The purpose of these extrapolations is to determine
the
4600    necessary
          of the CPAactuarial
                        Canada information
                                 Handbookfor      financial
                                              ("Section       statement reporting for the Plans in accordance with Section
                                                            4600").
   the necessary    actuarial  information   for  financial   statement reporting for the Plans in accordance with Section
4600 of the CPA Canada Handbook ("Section 4600").                                                                                              Aon has been engaged by the
   4600 of the CPA Canada Handbook ("Section 4600").
Our valuations and extrapolations have been prepared based on:                                                                                 extrapolations for the Teache
Our valuations and extrapolations have been prepared based on:                                                                                 August 31, 2024 based on th
   Our valuations and extrapolations have been prepared based on:
•       membership data provided by ATRF as at the most recent reported date by the respective employers,                                      the necessary actuarial inform
•       membership
        projected       data provided
                    to August   31, 2023 by and
                                            ATRF    as at the
                                                 adjusted    to most   recent
                                                                 reflect        reported
                                                                         anticipated     newdate  by as
                                                                                              hires  the respective    employers,              4600 of the CPA Canada Han
   •    membership      data provided    by ATRF    as at the   most   recent   reported    date  by theatrespective
                                                                                                            September    1, 2023;
                                                                                                                       employers,
        projected
        asset       to
               datato  August
                     provided   31,  2023   and  adjusted    to  reflect
                                                                 2024; anticipated new hires as at September 1,
                                                                         anticipated     new  hires  as at  September       2023;
•       projected      August by31,ATRF
                                     2023 as  atadjusted
                                            and   August 31, to reflect                                                  1, 2023;
••      asset  data
        assumptions  provided   by
                        that weby   ATRF
                                 understandas at  August
                                               have         31,
                                                       been31,   2024;
                                                              adopted                                                                          Our valuations and extrapola
        asset data provided         ATRF as at    August         2024; as ATRF management’s best estimates; and
 ••     assumptions
        actuarial  costthat  we understand
                         methods    and asset have     beenmethods
                                                valuation     adopted as ATRF  are inmanagement’s      best estimates;
                                                                                                               4600. and
        assumptions     that we understand     have    been adopted that as ATRF       accordance Section
                                                                                      management’s     best estimates;    and
  •     actuarial cost methods and asset valuation methods that are in accordance Section 4600.                                                •   membership data provide
   •    actuarial cost methods and asset valuation methods that are in accordance Section 4600.
  Based on the work we have performed, including conducting reasonability tests on the membership and asset                                        projected to August 31, 2
  Based
  data,    onhave
               the work   we have   performed,     including conducting reasonability tests on the membership and asset                        •   asset data provided by A
   Basedwe          concluded
           on the work    we havethat,  in our opinion:
                                    performed,     including conducting reasonability tests on the membership and asset
  data, we have concluded that, in our opinion:                                                                                                •   assumptions that we und
   data, we have concluded that, in our opinion:
  •     the data is sufficient and reliable for the purpose of the valuations and extrapolations;                                              •   actuarial cost methods an
  ••    the
        the data  is sufficient
            assumptions          and reliable
                            adopted    as best for  the purpose
                                                estimate    by ATRF'sof the  valuations and
                                                                          management        are extrapolations;
                                                                                                appropriate for the purpose of the
            data is sufficient   and reliable  for  the purpose      of the  valuations and     extrapolations;
   •    the assumptions
        valuations   and    adopted as best estimate by ATRF's management are appropriate for the purpose of the
                          extrapolations;                                                                                                      Based on the work we have p
   •    the assumptions adopted as best estimate by ATRF's management are appropriate for the purpose of the
   •    valuations
        the actuarialand  extrapolations;
                        cost methods and the asset valuation methods employed are appropriate for the purpose of                               data, we have concluded that
        valuations   and  extrapolations;
   •    the
        the actuarial
            valuations  cost
                          andmethods     and theand
                              extrapolations;     asset valuation methods employed are appropriate for the purpose of
   •        actuarial cost methods       and the asset valuation methods employed are appropriate for the purpose of
   •    the valuations
        the valuations andand extrapolations;    and
                              extrapolations;conform        with the requirements of Section 4600.                                             •   the data is sufficient and
                                                 and
   •    the valuations and extrapolations conform with the requirements of Section 4600.                                                       •   the assumptions adopted
   •    the valuations and extrapolations conform with the requirements of Section 4600.
   While the actuarial assumptions used to estimate the Plans' liabilities represent ATRF management's best                                        valuations and extrapolat
   While  the actuarial
   estimate               assumptions     used conditions
                                                to estimate the      Plans'31,
                                                                             liabilities represent   ATRF management's
                                                                                                             experience will best              •   the actuarial cost method
   While theof   future events
               actuarial         and market
                          assumptions     used to estimateathe    August        2024, the
                                                                     Plans' liabilities      Plans' future
                                                                                         represent   ATRF management's          differ from
                                                                                                                                best
   estimate
   the        of
        actuarialfuture  events
                  assumptions.   and  market
                                   Emerging    conditions     at  August   31,  2024,    the Plans'  future  experience
                                                                                                                  in gainswill  differ from        the valuations and extrap
   estimate   of future  events and    marketexperience
                                               conditions at   differing
                                                                  Augustfrom     the assumptions
                                                                           31, 2024,                  will result
                                                                                         the Plans' future   experience     or losses
                                                                                                                           will        that
                                                                                                                                differ from
   the
   will actuarial assumptions.     Emerging    experience      differing  from   the  assumptions     will result in gains  or losses  that    •   the valuations and extrap
   the be  revealed
        actuarial     in future valuations
                  assumptions.     Emergingand      will affect
                                               experience        the financial
                                                               differing         position
                                                                          from the          of the Plans.
                                                                                      assumptions     will result in gains or losses that
   will be revealed in future valuations and will affect the financial position of the Plans.
   will be revealed in future valuations and will affect the financial position of the Plans.
   Our opinions have been given, and our valuations and extrapolations have been performed, in accordance with                                 While the actuarial assumptio
   Our  opinions
   accepted        have been
               actuarial        given,
                          practice      and our valuations and extrapolations have been performed, in accordance with
                                    in Canada.                                                                                                 estimate of future events and
   Our opinions    have been    given,  and our valuations and extrapolations have been performed, in accordance with
   accepted actuarial practice in Canada.                                                                                                      the actuarial assumptions. Em
   accepted actuarial practice in Canada.
                                                                                                                                               will be revealed in future valu

                                                                                                                                               Our opinions have been given
[Original signed by Brenda Prysko]                                   [Original signed by Steve Windsor]                                        accepted actuarial practice in
[Original signed by Brenda Prysko]                                   [Original signed by Steve Windsor]
Brenda Prysko                                                        Steve Windsor
Brenda  Prysko Institute of Actuaries                                Steve Windsor
Brenda Canadian
Fellow, Prysko                                                       Fellow, Canadian Institute of Actuaries
                                                                     Steve Windsor
Fellow, Canadian
Fellow, Society ofInstitute
                   Actuariesof Actuaries                             Fellow,
                                                                     Fellow, Canadian
                                                                             Society ofInstitute
                                                                                        Actuariesof Actuaries
        Canadian  Institute of Actuaries                                     Canadian  Institute of Actuaries
Fellow, Society of Actuaries                                         Fellow, Society of Actuaries
Fellow, Society of Actuaries                                         Fellow, Society of Actuaries

                                                                                                                                               Brenda Prysko
                                                                                                                                               Fellow, Canadian Institute of
[Original signed by Nathan Conway]                                                                                                             Fellow, Society of Actuaries
[Original signed by Nathan Conway]
Nathan Conway
Nathan
Fellow, Conway Institute of Actuaries
Nathan Canadian
        Conway
Fellow, Society
Fellow, CanadianofInstitute
                   Actuariesof Actuaries
        Canadian  Institute of Actuaries
Fellow, Society of Actuaries
Fellow, Society of Actuaries
December 12, 2024
December 12, 2024                                                                                                                              Nathan Conway
December 12, 2024
                                                                                                                                               Fellow, Canadian Institute of
                                                                                                          ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT             47
                                                                                                                                               Fellow, Society of Actuaries

                                                                                                                                               December 12, 2024

Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                               183
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Statement
  Statement of
            of Financial   Position
               Financial Position


      As at August 31 ($ Thousands)                                           2024                       2023

      ASSETS
        Investments (Note 3)                                                    $ 24,395,058              $ 22,975,304
        Corporate cash                                                                 19,418                    31,818
        Contributions receivable                                                       17,238                    18,042
        Other assets                                                                    7,269                     8,089
                                                                                  24,438,983                23,033,253


      LIABILITIES
        Investment related liabilities (Note 3)                                        25,261                   131,947
        Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (Note 4)                              22,457                    22,258
        Other liabilities                                                               1,240                     1,628
                                                                                       48,958                   155,833


      NET ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS (Note 5)                                  24,390,025                22,877,420


      ACCRUED PENSION OBLIGATIONS (Note 5)                                        19,141,606                18,243,557


      ACCOUNTING SURPLUS (Note 5)                                               $ 5,248,419               $ 4,633,863

  The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.

  Approved by the ATRF Board




  [Original Signed by Sandra Johnston]                      [Original Signed by Tim Wiles]
  _______________________________                           ______________________________

  Sandra Johnston, ICD.D                                    Tim Wiles, FCPA, FCA
  Chair                                                     Chair, Audit & Finance Committee




                                 ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

184
 48      ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT                                                      Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                    OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Statement
  Statement of
            of Changes
               Changes inin Net
                          Net    Assets
                              Assets     Available
                                     Available       for Benefits
                                               for Benefits


   For the Year Ended August 31 ($ Thousands)                            2024                        2023

   Net assets available for benefits, beginning of year                    $ 22,877,420               $ 21,943,064


   Investments
      Investment income (Note 6)                                                 793,200                    632,977
      Investment expenses (Note 7)                                               (241,695)                  (182,264)
      Change in fair value of investments (Note 6)                              1,024,334                   509,492
   Net investment operations                                                    1,575,839                   960,205


   Member services
      Contributions (Note 8)
        Teachers                                                                 390,460                    376,208
        The Province                                                             374,645                    357,285
        Transfers from other plans                                                10,360                       7,928
        Private School Boards                                                       3,249                      3,042
                                                                                 778,714                    744,463
      Member service expenses (Note 7)                                            (13,580)                   (12,622)
      Benefits paid (Note 9)                                                     (828,368)                  (757,690)
   Net member service operations                                                  (63,234)                   (25,849)


   Increase in net assets available for benefits                                1,512,605                   934,356


   Net assets available for benefits, end of year                          $ 24,390,025               $ 22,877,420




   The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.




                               ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                             185
                                                                                                            REPORT
                                                                                             ATRF 2024 ANNUAL           49
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Statement
  Statement of
            of Changes
               Changes inin Pension
                          Pension     Obligations
                                  Obligations


      For the Year Ended August 31 ($ Thousands)                         2024                         2023


      Accrued pension obligations, beginning of year                       $ 18,243,557               $ 17,907,738


      Increase (decrease) in accrued pension obligations
          Interest on accrued benefits (Note 5)                                 1,177,002                 1,113,013
          Benefits accrued (Note 5)                                              556,711                     558,621
          Changes in actuarial assumptions (Note 5)                                   -                      (689,477)
          Experience (gains) losses (Note 5)                                       (7,296)                   111,352
          Benefits paid (Notes 5 and 9)                                          (828,368)                   (757,690)
                                                                                 898,049                     335,819
      Accrued pension obligations, end of year (Note 5)                    $ 19,141,606               $ 18,243,557




  The accompanying notes are part of these financial statements.




                               ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 50
186      ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT                                                  Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                                           OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 1 DESCRIPTION OF ATRF AND THE PLANS

a) ATRF – nature of operations

   The Alberta Teachers’ Retirement Fund Board (“ATRF”), established in 1939, a corporation under the authority of the
   Teachers’ Pension Plans Act, Chapter T-1, RSA 2000, is the trustee and administrator of the Teachers’ Pension Plan and
   the Private School Teachers’ Pension Plan (the “Plans”).

   ATRF is responsible for establishing the Plans’ funding policy and setting contribution rates, establishing the
   Statement of Investment Policies & Goals (“SIP&G”) for the Plans’ assets, providing pension benefit administration
   services to the Plan members and other stakeholders. The SIP&G describes policies that govern how ATRF’s assets are
   to be invested. It defines the strategic asset allocation including well-defined asset categories, their performance
   benchmarks and risk profiles, and the long-term target proportion of total assets to be invested in each. The SIP&G
   also defines ATRF’s guidance for both total investment risk and for AIMCo’s latitude in implementing these policies.

   ATRF is governed by a Board. One-half of the board members are nominated by the Finance Minister of the
   Government of Alberta and one-half by the Alberta Teachers’ Association. All board members are appointed by Order
   in Council.

   An amendment to the Teacher’s Pension Plans Act came into force on November 22, 2019, requiring ATRF to engage
   Alberta Investment Management Corporation (“AIMCo”) as the exclusive provider of investment management services
   to ATRF in respect of the Plans’ assets. Effective October 1, 2021, ATRF transitioned the responsibility for investment
   management of the Plans’ remaining assets to AIMCo.

b) The Plans – general description

   The Plans are contributory defined benefit pension plans for all Alberta teachers employed in school jurisdictions and
   charter schools, as well as teachers employed by participating private schools. The Plans are sponsored by the
   Government of Alberta and the Alberta Teachers’ Association, as representatives of the plan members. These plan
   sponsors are responsible for plan design, benefits and funding arrangements, and share in plan gains and losses.
   Design of the Plans’ benefits are established by The Teachers’ and Private School Teachers’ Pension Plan Regulation
   203/1995, as amended (the “Regulation”).

   The following descriptions of the Plans and their key attributes is a summary only. Refer to the Regulation and the
   Plans’ text documents for a complete description of the Plans’ benefits and obligations. Unless otherwise stated, all
   terms not defined in
                     below   have the have
                        the following meaning  ascribed to
                                           the meaning     them intothe
                                                        ascribed        Plans’
                                                                     them      documents.
                                                                           in the Plans’ documents.




Education | Annual Report 2024ALBERTA
                               – 2025 TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                 187
                                                                                              ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT        51
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 1 DESCRIPTION OF ATRF AND THE PLANS (CONTINUED)

c) Obligations relating to the period before September 1992

   The Teachers’ Pension Plan’s assets and obligations related to pensionable service after August 31, 1992 (the “post-
   1992 period”) have been accounted for separately from the assets and obligations related to pensionable service prior
   to September 1, 1992 (the “pre-1992 period”) and, accordingly, these financial statements and notes include only
   post-1992 period transactions of the Teachers’ Pension Plan and transactions of the Private School Teachers’ Pension
   Plan.

   Effective September 1, 2009, the Province of Alberta (the “Province”) assumed full responsibility for obligations related
   to the Teachers’ Pension Plan pre-1992 period pensionable service and provides the required amounts to ATRF to pay
   the obligations on a monthly basis (Note 9).

d) Contributions

   The determination of the value of the benefits and the required contributions for the Plans is made on the basis of
   periodic actuarial valuations.

   All teachers under contract with school jurisdictions and charter schools in Alberta are required to contribute to the
   Teachers’ Pension Plan. Current service costs and related deficiencies are funded by equal contributions from the
   Province and the teachers. A component of the post-1992 contributions includes a cost-of-living adjustment
   (“COLA”), equating to 70% of the increase to the Alberta Consumer Price Index (“ACPI”). Teachers and the Province
   equally contribute to fund the COLA of 60% of the ACPI, with the additional COLA of 10% of the ACPI fully funded by
   the teachers.

   Certain other designated organizations in Alberta also participate in the Teachers’ Pension Plan under the same
   funding arrangements, except these organizations make the employer contributions rather than the Province.

   Certain private schools participate in the Private School Teachers’ Pension Plan. The structure for plan costs and
   related deficiencies are funded in equal contributions from the employers and the teachers. Similar to the Teachers’
   Pension Plan above, the teachers and the Province equally contribute to fund the COLA of 60% of the ACPI, with the
   additional COLA of 10% of the ACPI fully funded by the teachers.




188                           ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                                                     Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025

 52    ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                                OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 1 DESCRIPTION OF ATRF AND THE PLANS (CONTINUED)

   The contribution rates for fiscal years ended August 31 are as follows:


                                                                       Teachers'                Private School Teachers’
                                                                      Pension Plan                    Pension Plan

                                                                   2024            2023            2024           2023
    Up to YMPE1                                                       9.00%            9.00%          8.50%          8.50%
    Above YMPE                                                       12.86%          12.86%          12.15%         12.15%
    Total Teachers’ Contribution                                     10.32%          10.32%           9.95%          9.95%
    Total Government/Employer Contribution                            9.89%            9.89%          9.51%          9.51%
   1
       YMPE: Year’s Maximum Pensionable Earnings used by the Canada Pension Plan (2024: $68,500, 2023: $66,600)


e) Retirement pensions

   Retirement pensions are based on the number of years of pensionable service and the average salary of the highest
   five consecutive years. Pensions are payable to teachers who retire after completion of at least five years of
   pensionable service, with certain restrictions, and who have attained age 65. Unreduced pensions are also payable to
   teachers who have reached at least age 55 and the sum of their age and service equals at least 85. With certain
   restrictions, reduced pensions are payable to teachers who retire at or after age 55 with a minimum of five years of
   pensionable service.

f) Disability benefits

   Teachers who are disabled after August 31, 1992 are credited with pensionable service while disabled. Teachers do
   not contribute to the Plans while disabled.

g) Termination benefits

   Refunds or commuted value transfers are available when a teacher ceases employment, subject to certain restrictions.
   Inactive members with a minimum of five years of pensionable service, subject to certain restrictions, have the option
   to defer their entitlement in the Plans and receive a pension when they retire.

h) Death benefits

   Death benefits are available upon the death of a teacher and may be available upon the death of a retired member,
   depending on the pension option selected by the retired member at the time of retirement. The benefit may take the
   form of a lump sum payment or a survivor pension.

i) Service purchases and transfers

   Purchase of past service, such as substitute teaching service, employer-approved leaves, and reinstatement of
   refunded service is allowed on a basis that is cost neutral to the Plans.




Education | Annual Report 2024ALBERTA
                               – 2025 TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                 189

                                                                                                   ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT   53
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 1 DESCRIPTION OF ATRF AND THE PLANS (CONTINUED)

   The plans have Reciprocal Transfer Agreements with all other provincial teachers’ pension plans, the Alberta public
   sector pension plans, and the Government of Canada Public Service Pension Plan. These agreements authorize the
   transfer of pensionable service and related obligations and assets in accordance with the terms of the reciprocal
   transfer agreement between the participating organizations.

j) COLA

   Deferred pensions and pensions payable for the portion of pension earned after 1992 are increased each year by a
   COLA equal to 70% of the increase in the ACPI.

k) Income taxes

   The Plans are registered pension plans as defined in the Income Tax Act (registration number 0359125) and are not
   subject to income taxes in Canada. The Plans may be subject to taxes in other jurisdictions where full tax exemptions
   are not available.



NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

a) Basis of presentation

   The statements present the aggregate financial position of the Plans. These financial statements are prepared in
   accordance with Canadian accounting standards for pension plans. Section 4600 – Pension Plans, of the CPA Canada
   Handbook, prescribes accounting policies specific to investments and pension obligations. For accounting policies
   which do not relate to either investments or pension obligations, International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
   are applied. To the extent that IFRS are inconsistent with Section 4600, Section 4600 takes precedence.

   All of the entities that ATRF has an ownership interest in, regardless of whether ATRF can control or exercise
   significant influence, are considered to be investment assets and are presented on a non-consolidated basis.

b) Valuation of investments

   Investments, investment-related receivables and investment-related liabilities are recognized on a trade date basis
   and are stated at fair value.

   Fair value is the price at which an investment asset would be sold or investment liability transferred through an
   orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions.




190                                                                                  Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                               ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

54     ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                           OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes toTO
        the THE FINANCIAL
            Financial        STATEMENTS
                      Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

The following methods are used by AIMCo to determine the fair values of investment, as presented in Note 3.

   CATEGORY               BASIS OF VALUATION

   Money-market           Cost plus accrued interest approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these
   securities             securities.

   Bonds and              Closing quoted market price. Where quoted prices are not available, estimated values are
   debentures             calculated using discounted cash flows based on current market yields for comparable
                          securities.

   Public equity and      Closing quoted market price. Where a market price is not available, market value is
   REITS                  determined using appropriate valuation methods.

                          Managers or general partners estimate the fair value of private equity funds, pools and
   Private equity/
                          limited partnerships. Valuation techniques include a combination of the market approach
   Infrastructure
                          using prices or earnings multiples of comparable investments or companies, the income
                          approach considering discounted or capitalized future cash flows, and the cost approach.

   Absolute return        Absolute return strategies include investments in hedge funds, and underlying securities in
                          the funds can include equities, fixed income securities, derivatives, and alternative
                          investments. The fair value of these funds is based on the net asset value reported by the
                          external fund manager or the administrator.

   Real estate            The estimated fair value of private real estate investments is reported at the most recent
                          appraised value, net of any liabilities against the real property. Real estate properties are
                          appraised at least annually by qualified external real estate appraisers. Appraisers use a
                          combination of methods to determine a fair value, including replacement cost, direct
                          comparison, direct capitalization of earnings and discounted cash flows.

   Renewables             Managers or general partners estimate the fair value of the underlying timberland and
                          agricultural investments. Valuation techniques include a combination of the market
                          approach using public comparables or precedent transaction multiples of comparable
                          investments or companies, the income approach considering discounted or capitalized
                          future cash flows, and the cost approach. Underlying real estate, if any, is valuated using
                          the same methodologies described in the real estate category.

   Bond repurchase        Bonds sold under repurchase agreement are recorded at cost plus accrued interest, which
   agreement              approximates fair value.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025 TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             ALBERTA                                                                                     191

                                                                                              ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT     55
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes toTO
        the THE FINANCIAL
            Financial        STATEMENTS
                      Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)


   CATEGORY                 BASIS OF VALUATION

   Derivatives              The carrying value of derivative contracts in a favourable and unfavourable position is
                            recorded at fair value and is included in the fair value of pooled investment funds (see Note
                            10). The estimated fair value of equity and bond index swaps is based on changes in the
                            appropriate market-based index net of accrued floating rate interest. Interest rate swaps
                            and crosscurrency interest rate swaps are valued based on discounted cash flows using
                            current market yields and exchange rates. Credit default swaps are valued based on
                            discounted cash flows using current market yields and calculated default probabilities.
                            Forward foreign exchange contracts are valued based on the difference between
                            contractual foreign exchange rates and foreign exchange forward rates. Future contracts
                            are valued based on quoted market prices. Options to enter into interest rate swap
                            contracts are valued based on discounted cash flows using current market yields and
                            volatility parameters, which measure changes in the underlying swap. Warrants and rights
                            are valued at the year-end closing sale price or the average of the latest bid and ask prices
                            quoted by an independent securities valuation company.


   As disclosed in Note 3, the Plans’ investments consist of direct ownership in both segregated and pooled investment
   funds (“the pools”). Participants in the pools are not a party to the contracts and have no control over the
   management of the pool and the selection of securities in the pool. The Plans’ investment manager controls the
   creation of the pools and the management and administration of the pools, including security selection. The Plans
   hold units in the pooled investment fund. Accordingly, the Plans do not report the financial instruments of the pools
   on its statement of financial position, but rather the value of the units.

   The fair value of units held by the Plans is derived from the fair value of the underlying financial instruments held by
   the pools as determined by the investment manager. Investments in units are recorded in the Plans’ accounts. The
   underlying financial instruments are recorded in the accounts of the pools on a trade-date basis. The pools have a
   market-based unit value that is used to distribute income to the pool participants and to value purchases and sales of
   the pool units. The pools include various financial instruments such as bonds, equities, real estate, derivatives,
   investment receivables, and payables.

   The Plans become exposed to the financial risks and rewards associated with the underlying financial instruments in a
   pool when the Plans purchase units issued and lose exposure to those financial risks and rewards when it sells its
   units. The Plans report its share of the investment risks in Note 10.

   All purchases and sales of the pool units are in Canadian dollars.




192                                                                                   Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                               ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

56     ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                             OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

   FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY


   All financial instruments measured at fair value are categorized into one of the following three hierarchy levels. Each
   level reflects the availability of observable inputs which are used to determine fair values, based on financial
   information significant to the valuation measurement.
           •   Level 1: Fair value is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical
                           assets or liabilities. For multi-client pools, securities held in pools with quoted
                           price in active markets are classified as level 2 as the pool units themselves are
                           not listed in an active market, and therefore, cannot be classified as level 1.
           •   Level 2: Fair value is based on market data other than quoted prices included in Level 1
                           that are observable either directly or indirectly. This level includes units of multi-
                           client pools holding public equity, debt securities, and derivative contracts that
                           would otherwise be classified as Level 1.
           •   Level 3: Fair value is based on inputs other than observable market data. This level
                           includes units of multi-client pools holding investments that would not be
                           classified as Level 1 and Level 2.

c) Investment income

   Income is recognized as follows:

   CATEGORY                                 BASIS OF RECOGNITION

   Interest income                          Accrual basis


   Dividend income                          Accrual basis on the ex-dividend date


   Income from real estate,                 Income includes distributions recognized as interest income, dividend
   private equity,                          income or other income, as appropriate
   and infrastructure

   Realized gains and                       Difference between proceeds on disposal and the average cost
   losses on investments

   Unrealized gains and                     Change in the difference between estimated fair value and the average
   losses on investments                    cost



   Income distributions from pooled funds are based on the Plans' pro-rata share of total units issued by the pools.
   Changes in fair value of units, including realized gains and losses on disposal of units and unrealized gains and losses
   on units are determined on an average cost basis.


Education | Annual Report 2024ALBERTA
                               – 2025 TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                  193

                                                                                                ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT       57
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
NOTES
Notes toTO
        TO
         theTHE
            THE  FINANCIAL
                  FINANCIAL
             Financial       STATEMENTS
                              STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August
 August31,
        31,2024
            2024



NOTE
 NOTE22 SUMMARY
         SUMMARYOF
                 OFSIGNIFICANT
                    SIGNIFICANTACCOUNTING
                                ACCOUNTINGPOLICIES
                                           POLICIES(CONTINUED)
                                                    (CONTINUED)

d)
 d) Investment
     Investmentexpenses
                expenses

   Investment
    Investmentexpenses,
               expenses,including
                         includingthose
                                   thoserelating
                                         relatingtotoportfolio
                                                      portfoliotransaction
                                                                transactioncosts
                                                                            costs(incremental
                                                                                   (incrementalcosts
                                                                                                costsattributable
                                                                                                      attributabletotothe
                                                                                                                       the
   acquisition
    acquisitionand
                anddisposition
                    dispositionofofinvestment
                                    investmentassets
                                               assetsororliabilities),
                                                           liabilities),investment
                                                                         investmentpersonnel
                                                                                    personneland
                                                                                              andoperations,
                                                                                                  operations,oversight,
                                                                                                              oversight,and
                                                                                                                         and
   governance,
    governance,are
                areaccrued
                    accruedand
                            andexpensed
                                expensedininthe
                                             thefiscal
                                                  fiscalperiod
                                                         periodasasincurred.
                                                                    incurred.

   InInaddition,
        addition,investment
                  investmentexpenses
                             expensesare
                                      arecharged
                                          chargedby
                                                  byAIMCo
                                                     AIMCoon
                                                           onaacost-recovery
                                                                cost-recoverybasis.
                                                                              basis.Amounts
                                                                                     Amountscharged
                                                                                             chargedtotothe
                                                                                                         thePlan
                                                                                                             Planby
                                                                                                                  by
   AIMCo
    AIMCofor
          forinvestment
              investmentcosts
                         costsinclude
                               includeexternal
                                       externalmanagement
                                                managementfees,
                                                           fees,external
                                                                 externaladministration
                                                                          administrationcosts,
                                                                                         costs,employee
                                                                                                employeesalaries,
                                                                                                         salaries,and
                                                                                                                   and
   incentive
    incentivebenefits,
              benefits,and
                        andoverhead
                            overheadcosts.
                                     costs.Please
                                            Pleaserefer
                                                   refertotothe
                                                             theAIMCo
                                                                 AIMCo financial
                                                                         financialstatements
                                                                                   statementsfor
                                                                                              foraamore
                                                                                                    moredetailed
                                                                                                         detailed
   breakdown
    breakdownofofthe
                  thetypes
                      typesofofexpenses.
                                expenses.

   Investment
    Investmentperformance
               performancefees
                           feesare
                                areearned
                                    earnedby
                                           byAIMCo
                                              AIMCoand
                                                    andother
                                                        otherexternal
                                                              externalinvestment
                                                                       investmentmanagers
                                                                                  managersfor
                                                                                           forearning
                                                                                               earningreturns
                                                                                                       returnsinin
   excess
    excessofofpre-determined
               pre-determinedthresholds.
                              thresholds.Fees
                                          Feesearned
                                               earnedby
                                                      byAIMCo
                                                         AIMCoand
                                                               andexternal
                                                                   externalmanagers
                                                                            managersininthe
                                                                                         thefiscal
                                                                                              fiscalperiod
                                                                                                     periodare
                                                                                                            areexpensed.
                                                                                                                expensed.

e)e) Foreign
      Foreigncurrency
              currencytranslation
                       translation
   Assets
    Assetsand
           andliabilities
                liabilitiesdenominated
                            denominatedininforeign
                                            foreigncurrencies
                                                    currenciesare
                                                               aretranslated
                                                                   translatedinto
                                                                              intoCanadian
                                                                                   Canadiandollars
                                                                                            dollarsatatthe
                                                                                                        theexchange
                                                                                                            exchangerates
                                                                                                                     rates
    prevailingon
   prevailing  onthe
                  theyear-end
                      year-enddate.
                               date.Income
                                     Incomeand  expensesare
                                            andexpenses  aretranslated
                                                             translatedinto
                                                                        intoCanadian
                                                                             Canadiandollars
                                                                                      dollarsatatthe
                                                                                                  theexchange
                                                                                                      exchangerates
                                                                                                               rates
    prevailingon
   prevailing  onthe
                  thedates
                      datesofofthe
                                thetransactions.
                                    transactions.Realized  andunrealized
                                                  Realizedand  unrealizedgains
                                                                          gainsand
                                                                                andlosses
                                                                                    lossesarising
                                                                                           arisingfrom
                                                                                                   fromthese
                                                                                                        thesetranslations
                                                                                                              translations
   are
    areincluded
        includedwithin
                 withinthe
                        thechange
                            changeininfair
                                       fairvalue
                                            valueofofinvestments
                                                      investmentsinininvestment
                                                                      investmentearnings.
                                                                                 earnings.

f)f) Contributions
      Contributions

    Contributionsfrom
   Contributions  fromthe
                       theteachers,
                           teachers,the
                                     theProvince
                                         Provinceand
                                                  andthe  employersare
                                                      theemployers  arerecorded
                                                                        recordedon
                                                                                 onan
                                                                                    anaccrual
                                                                                       accrualbasis.
                                                                                               basis.Cash
                                                                                                      Cashreceived
                                                                                                           receivedfrom
                                                                                                                    from
   teachers
    teachersfor
             forcredited
                 creditedservice
                          serviceand
                                  andcash
                                      cashtransfers
                                           transfersfrom
                                                     fromother
                                                          otherpension
                                                                pensionplans
                                                                        plansare
                                                                              arerecorded
                                                                                  recordedwhen
                                                                                           whenreceived.
                                                                                                received.

g)
 g) Benefits
     Benefits

    Pensionbenefits,
   Pension  benefits,termination
                      terminationbenefits
                                  benefitsand
                                           andtransfers
                                               transferstotoother  plansare
                                                             otherplans  arerecorded
                                                                             recordedininthe
                                                                                          theperiod
                                                                                              periodininwhich
                                                                                                         whichthey
                                                                                                               theyare
                                                                                                                    arepaid.
                                                                                                                        paid.
   Any
    Anybenefit
        benefitpayment
                paymentaccruals
                        accrualsnot
                                 notpaid
                                     paidare
                                          arereflected
                                              reflectedininaccrued
                                                            accruedpension
                                                                    pensionbenefits.
                                                                            benefits.

h)h) Accrued
      Accruedpension
              pensionobligations
                      obligations

    Thevalue
   The  valueofofaccrued
                  accruedpension
                          pensionobligations
                                  obligationsand
                                              andchanges
                                                  changestherein  duringthe
                                                          thereinduring  theyear
                                                                             yearare
                                                                                  arebased
                                                                                      basedon
                                                                                            onan
                                                                                               anactuarial
                                                                                                  actuarialvaluation
                                                                                                            valuation
   prepared
    preparedby
             byan
                anindependent
                   independentfirm
                                firmofofactuaries
                                         actuariesannually
                                                   annuallyasasatatAugust
                                                                    August31.
                                                                           31.The
                                                                               Thevaluation
                                                                                   valuationuses
                                                                                             usesthe
                                                                                                  theprojected
                                                                                                      projectedbenefit
                                                                                                                benefit
   method,
    method,pro-rated
            pro-ratedon
                      onservice,
                         service,and
                                  andincludes
                                      includesmanagement’s
                                               management’sbest
                                                            bestestimate
                                                                 estimateofofvarious
                                                                              variousfuture
                                                                                      futureevents,
                                                                                             events,asasatatthe
                                                                                                             thevaluation
                                                                                                                 valuation
   date
    date(Note
         (Note5).
               5).

    TheAugust
   The  August31,
               31,2024
                   2024resuls
                        resulswere
                        resultswere
                                wereobtained
                                   obtained by
                                     obtainedbyextrapolating
                                              byextrapolatingthe
                                                 extrapolatingthe
                                                               theAugust
                                                                 August
                                                                   August31,
                                                                        31,  2023
                                                                            2023
                                                                          31,     actuarial
                                                                                 actuarial
                                                                              2023          valuation.
                                                                                           valuation.
                                                                                   actuarial valuation.

i)i) Corporate
      Corporatecash
                cash
    Corporatecash
   Corporate  cashcomprises
                   comprisesofofcash
                                 cashon
                                      onhand
                                         handand  demanddeposits.
                                              anddemand  deposits.Cash
                                                                   Cashisisheld
                                                                            heldfor
                                                                                 forthe
                                                                                     thepurpose
                                                                                         purposeofofmeeting
                                                                                                     meetingshort-term
                                                                                                             short-term
   commitments
    commitmentsrather
                ratherthan
                       thanfor
                            forinvestment
                                investmentpurposes.
                                           purposes.




194                           ALBERTA
                               ALBERTATEACHERS’
                                       TEACHERS’RETIREMENT
                                                 RETIREMENTFUND
                                                            FUND| 2024
                                                                  | 2024FINANCIAL     Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                                                         FINANCIALSTATEMENTS
                                                                                   STATEMENTS

 58     ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                           OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

j) Capital assets

   Capital assets are recorded at cost and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Costs net of accumulated
   amortization are included with ‘Other assets’ on the Statement of Financial Position.

k) Use of estimates

   The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with Canadian accounting standards for pension plans, requires
   management to make estimates and assumptions in circumstances where the actual values are unknown. Uncertainty
   in determination of the amount that is reported in the financial statements is known as measurement uncertainty.

   Measurement uncertainty exists in the calculation of the Plans’ actuarial value of accrued benefits. Uncertainty arises
   because the Plans’ actual experience may differ significantly from assumptions used in the calculation of the Plans’
   accrued benefits.

   The value of financial instruments can be impacted by global events, therefore measurement uncertainty exists in the
   values of the Plans’ assets.

   Significant estimates and assumptions are made in measuring the Plans’ private investments. The values may differ
   significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market existed for these investments.

l) Salaries and benefits

   Details of executives’ compensation are presented in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of the Annual
   Report.

   ATRF participates in the Local Authorities Pension Plan, a defined benefit public sector pension plan, which meets the
   accounting requirements for treatment as a defined contribution plan. The employer contributions are recorded as an
   expense.

   ATRF provides a Supplementary Employee Pension Plan (SEPP) to executives and certain eligible managers whose
   earnings exceed the pension benefit limit under the Income Tax Act regulations. Benefits are paid to these members
   as the benefits come due. No assets are earmarked, set aside or placed into trust by ATRF for SEPP benefit payments.
   The pension benefit is recorded as an expense and as a liability.

m) Accounting surplus

   For financial statement reporting purposes, the Plans’ surplus or deficiency is based on the difference between the fair
   value of the Plans’ net assets available for benefits and the accrued pension obligation.




Education | Annual Report 2024ALBERTA
                               – 2025 TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                 195

                                                                                               ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT       59
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 3 INVESTMENTS

The following schedule summarizes the fair value of the Plans’ investments before allocating the market exposure related
to derivative financial instruments. Investments assets and liabilities are presented within the fair value hierarchy as
defined in Note 2 b).

($ Thousands)                                 Fair Value                                             2024             2023
                                               Level 1           Level 2           Level 3           Total            Total
Fixed Income
  Investment cash                         $              -   $      292,215    $             -   $      292,215   $      596,301
  Money-market securities                                -            8,746                  -            8,746           35,443
  Bonds and debentures                                   -        4,012,592                  -        4,012,592        4,200,782
                                                         -        4,313,553                  -        4,313,553        4,832,526
Equity
 Public & REITs                                    12,545         6,759,478               -           6,772,023        6,606,842
 Private                                              -                 -           4,714,479         4,714,479        3,792,531
                                                   12,545         6,759,478         4,714,479        11,486,502       10,399,373

Absolute return                                          -                 -        2,301,087         2,301,087        2,376,639

Real estate                                              -                 -        2,291,428         2,291,428        2,846,045
Infrastructure                                           -                 -        3,543,000         3,543,000        2,440,948
Renewables                                               -                 -          435,277           435,277              -
                                                         -                 -        6,269,705         6,269,705        5,286,993
Investment related assets
  Due from brokers                                       -            2,229                  -            2,229          18,949
  Accrued income                                         -              636                  -              636           1,261
  Reverse Repurchase agreements                          -              -                    -              -            27,628
  Unrealized gains and amounts
    receivable on derivative contracts                -              21,346               -              21,346           31,935
                                                      -              24,211               -              24,211           79,773
INVESTMENT ASSETS                                  12,545        11,097,242        13,285,271        24,395,058       22,975,304


Investment related liabilities
  Due to brokers                                         -           12,629                  -          12,629           20,290
  Repurchase agreements                                  -            3,159                  -           3,159           77,230
  Unrealized losses and amounts
   payable on derivative contracts                       -            9,473                  -            9,473          34,427

INVESTMENT LIABILITIES                                   -           25,261                  -          25,261          131,947

NET INVESTMENTS                           $        12,545    $   11,071,981    $   13,285,271    $   24,369,797   $   22,843,357




196                                                                                     Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                 ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

60      ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                        OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 3 INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)

($ Thousands)                                Fair Value                                                2023
                                              Level 1           Level 2           Level 3              Total

Fixed Income
  Investment cash                        $              -   $      596,301    $             -      $      596,301
  Money-market securities                               -           35,443                  -              35,443
  Bonds and debentures                                  -        4,200,782                  -           4,200,782
                                                        -        4,832,526                  -           4,832,526
Equity
 Public & REITs                                4,713,590         1,893,252               -              6,606,842
 Private                                             -                 -           3,792,531            3,792,531
                                               4,713,590         1,893,252         3,792,531           10,399,373

Absolute return                                         -                 -        2,376,639            2,376,639

Real estate                                             -                 -        2,846,045            2,846,045
Infrastructure                                          -                 -        2,440,948            2,440,948
                                                        -                 -        5,286,993            5,286,993
Investment related assets
  Due from brokers                                      -           18,949                  -              18,949
  Accrued income                                        -            1,261                  -               1,261
    Reverse Repurchase agreements                       -           27,628                  -              27,628
Unrealized gains and amounts
    receivable on derivative contracts               -              31,935               -                 31,935
                                                     -              79,773               -                 79,773
INVESTMENT ASSETS                              4,713,590         6,805,551        11,456,163           22,975,304

Investment related liabilities
  Due to brokers                                        -           20,290                  -              20,290
  Repurchase agreements                                 -           77,230                  -              77,230
  Unrealized losses and amounts
    payable on derivative contracts                     -           34,427                  -              34,427

INVESTMENT LIABILITIES                                  -          131,947                  -            131,947

NET INVESTMENTS                          $     4,713,590    $    6,673,604    $   11,456,163       $   22,843,357




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025 TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             ALBERTA                                                                                     197

                                                                                                ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT   61
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 3 INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)

The following table represents a reconciliation of financial instruments included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for
the year ended August 31, 2024:


                          Fair Value,                                                                 Unrealized Gain     Fair Value,
($ Thousands)           August 31, 2023        Purchases          Sales        Realized Gain (loss)       (loss)        August 31, 2024
Private equity      $          3,792,531   $     1,418,940   $     (596,632) $            493,944     $     (394,304) $       4,714,479
Absolute return                2,376,639             6,572         (248,660)              (562,190)         728,726           2,301,087
Real estate                    2,846,045           130,446         (265,352)               62,312           (482,023)         2,291,428
Infrastructure                 2,440,948         1,082,333         (114,161)               74,688            59,192           3,543,000
Renewables                           -             493,845         (128,271)                    -            69,703             435,277
                    $         11,456,163   $     3,132,136   $    (1,353,076) $            68,754     $      (18,706) $      13,285,271



NOTE 4 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

($ Thousands)                                                    2024              2023
Tax withholdings                                                 $ 16,020          $ 15,074
Supplementary Employee Pension Plan                                 4,324               4,209
Accounts payable                                                    1,080               1,090
Incentive plans payable                                             1,033               1,007
Contributions due to the Province                                       -                 878
                                                                 $ 22,457          $ 22,258



NOTE 5 ACCRUED PENSION OBLIGATIONS

Pension obligations represent the value of accrued pension benefits payable in the future to members and are based on
an actuarial valuation or extrapolation by an independent firm of actuaries.

Separate valuations or extrapolations are performed for accounting purposes and for funding purposes. The accrued
pension obligation for funding purposes was determined using the valuation methodology described in Note 5 d).

For accounting purposes, an actuarial extrapolation of the Plans was performed as at August 31, 2024 and is based on
the actuarial valuations as at August 31, 2023. The accrued pension obligation reflected in the Statement of Financial
Position represents the present value of the accrued pension obligations of $19,142 million (2023: $18,244 million), which
was determined using the projected accrued benefit actuarial cost method prorated on service.




198                                                                                             Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

62      ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                       OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024




NOTE 5 ACCRUED PENSION OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)

a) Best-estimate valuations and assumptions

   The assumptions used in the valuations/extrapolations are based on past experience, as analyzed by the Plans’
   actuary, and management’s best estimate of future events and involve rates of demographic change, such as rates of
   mortality, termination of membership and retirement, as well as economic parameters, such as rates of inflation,
   discount rates and salary escalation rates.

   The discount rate is equivalent to the long-term expected rate of return on invested assets.

   The major long-term economic assumptions used in determining the actuarial value of accrued pension benefits
   were:

                                                                       2024              2023
   Rate of return on invested assets (discount rate)                        6.50%            6.50%
   Rate of inflation                                                        2.00%            2.00%
   Real wage increases                                                      0.75%            0.75%


b) Sensitivity of changes in major assumptions on best-estimate valuations

   For illustrative purposes, the table below shows the impact of changes in major assumptions, holding all other
   assumptions constant:

                                                              Teachers’                           Private School Teachers’
                                                             Pension Plan                               Pension Plan

                                                   0.5% decrease            0.5% increase       0.5% decrease       0.5% increase
                                                   in rate of return           in rate of       in rate of return      in rate of
                                                     on invested                inflation         on invested           inflation
                                                        assets                                       assets

   Increase in current service costs
                                                        1.7%                    1.3%                 1.8%               1.4%
     (% of total teacher salaries)

   Increase in accrued
                                                   $1,452 million           $1,075 million         $8 million         $6 million
     pension obligations

   For accounting purposes, and using best-estimate financial statement extrapolation assumptions, as at August 31,
   2024, the current service cost (excluding 0.25% for administrative expenses) as a percent of total teacher salaries for
   the Teachers’ Pension Plan is 14.3% and for the Private School Teachers’ Pension Plan is 14.8%. The financial
   statement extrapolation’s current service cost may differ from the current service cost calculated using the funding
   extrapolation assumptions for funding purposes.



Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                 199
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024




NOTE 5 ACCRUED PENSION OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)


c) Results based on valuations/ extrapolations
   For accounting purposes, the excess of net assets available for benefits against pension obligations results in the
   Plans having an accounting surplus of $5,212 million for the post-1992 period of the Teachers’ Pension Plan and an
   accounting surplus of $36 million for the Private School Teachers’ Pension Plan as at August 31, 2024.

      ($ Thousands)                                                        2024                                                           2023

                                                                          Private                                                        Private
                                                   Teachers'             Teachers'                                  Teachers'           Teachers'
                                                  Pension Plan             Plan              Total                 Pension Plan           Plan            Total


      Net assets at beginning of year         $      22,755,061      $      122,359      $   22,877,420        $      21,828,657    $      114,407    $   21,943,064

      Contributions                                     772,233                6,481            778,714                  738,318             6,145          744,463

      Benefits                                         (824,346)              (4,022)          (828,368)                (754,555)           (3,135)         (757,690)

      Investment earnings                             1,807,813                9,721          1,817,534                1,136,511             5,958         1,142,469

      Investment and
                                                       (253,909)              (1,366)          (255,275)                (193,870)           (1,016)         (194,886)
        member service expenses

      Net assets at end of year                      24,256,852             133,173          24,390,025               22,755,061           122,359        22,877,420


      Accrued pension obligations
                                                     18,153,574              89,983          18,243,557               17,821,219            86,519        17,907,738
       at beginning of year

      Interest on accrued benefits                    1,171,124                5,878          1,177,002                1,107,551             5,462         1,113,013

      Benefits accrued                                  551,788                4,923            556,711                  553,755             4,866          558,621

      Changes in
                                                                 -                   -                    -             (685,852)           (3,625)         (689,477)
       actuarial assumptions

      Experience (gains) losses                          (7,265)                  (31)               (7,296)             111,456              (104)         111,352

      Benefits paid                                    (824,346)              (4,022)          (828,368)                (754,555)           (3,135)         (757,690)

      Actuarial value of accrued
                                                     19,044,875              96,731          19,141,606               18,153,574            89,983        18,243,557
       pension obligations

      Accounting surplus                      $       5,211,977      $       36,442      $    5,248,419        $       4,601,487    $       32,376    $    4,633,863


   The change in pension obligations is comprised of five components:

   i) INTEREST ON ACCRUED BENEFITS

   Pension obligations increase with interest as the present value of the valuation is evaluated one year later. The
   interest on accrued benefits is calculated using the rate of return on invested assets.




200                                                                                            Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                        ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

64         ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                          OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 5 ACCRUED PENSION OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)

   ii) BENEFITS ACCRUED

   Pension obligations increase with new service credited and additional benefits accumulated by plan members during
   the fiscal year.

   iii) EXPERIENCE LOSSES (GAINS)

   Experience gains of $7 million (2023: Experience losses of $111 million) on accrued benefits are the result of actual
   experience from one valuation/extrapolation to the next being different than implied by the assumptions from the
   previous valuation/extrapolation. As the experience is more favorable than anticipated in the assumptions, this results
   in an experience gain. Experience gains decrease the pension obligations.

   The following table provides details on the net gain on accrued benefits.

   ($ Thousands)                                     TPP             PSTPP              Total
   COLA                                         $        (7,265) $             (31) $       (7,296)
   Experience gains                             $        (7,265) $             (31) $       (7,296)


   iv) CHANGES IN ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS

   Pension obligations can increase or decrease if there are changes in actuarial assumptions used to evaluate the
   present value of benefits.

   There are no assumptions changes from August 31, 2023 to August 31, 2024.

   v) BENEFITS PAID

   The pension obligations decrease with benefits paid from the Plans during the fiscal year, as the funds are no longer
   required to be set aside to pay for those benefits.

d) Extrapolation/Valuation methodologies

   ATRF engages an independent actuary to perform two different actuarial valuations of the Plans, one for accounting
   purposes which is performed in compliance with the prescribed accounting standards, and the second for funding
   purposes, which is performed in compliance with the prescribed professional and regulatory standards.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                     201
                                ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                              ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT        65
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 5 ACCRUED PENSION OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)

   The Plans’ accounting surplus or deficiency includes the determination of assets on a fair value basis. However, for
   actuarial funding valuation purposes, asset values are adjusted for fluctuations in fair values to moderate the effect of
   market volatility on the Plans’ funded status. The funding valuation is calculated in accordance with actuarial
   standards on a going concern basis and is used to determine changes to contribution rates for future service in order
   to manage the Plans’ funding status. Both types of valuations have prescribed uses and are based on the same
   underlying plan member data, but the funding valuation differs by smoothing market returns over a five-year period
   and incorporating a margin for adverse deviation in the pension obligations and current service costs.

   In accordance with the Teachers’ Pension Plans Act, an actuarial funding valuation is required to be performed, at a
   minimum, every three years. The objective is to ensure that the Plans are fully funded over the long term through the
   management of investments and contribution rates. Investments are based on an asset mix that is designed to enable
   the Plans to meet their long-term funding requirement within an acceptable level of risk, consistent with the Plans’
   investment and funding policies, which are approved by the Board. In years when an actuarial valuation is not
   performed (such as the year ended August 31, 2024), the Plans’ obligations are determined by extrapolating the
   Plans’ obligations from the previous actuarial valuation as per the accepted extrapolation methodologies under the
   prescribed professional standards. For further information, refer to the funding section of the Annual Report.




202                                                                                      Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                              ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

66     ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                                        OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 6 INVESTMENT EARNINGS

The following is a summary of investment earnings by asset class:


($ Thousands)                                                 2024                                                     2023

                                        Investment        Change in                              Investment     Change in Fair
                                                                                Total                                                      Total
                                          Income          Fair Value¹                              Income          Value²
Fixed income
     Investment Cash &                  $      23,268     $       2,324    $       25,592    $       15,454      $            (52) $         15,402
        money-market securities
     Bonds and debentures                     149,660           179,620          329,280            119,940            (114,355)               5,585
Equity
     Public & REITs                           487,125           786,835        1,273,960            171,314            700,416              871,730
     Private                                     9,162           99,640          108,802               8,788           288,177              296,965
Absolute return                                18,587           166,536           185,123             29,562           148,977              178,539
Real estate                                    19,238          (419,711)         (400,473)          111,762            (393,581)            (281,819)
Infrastructure                                 87,357           133,880           221,237           176,157            106,792              282,949
Renewables                                      (1,197)          69,703            68,506                -                  -                    -
Derivatives                                        -              5,507             5,507                -             (226,882)            (226,882)
                                        $     793,200     $   1,024,334    $   1,817,534     $      632,977      $     509,492     $       1,142,469
1
    2024 change in fair value includes a realized net gain of $277,836 and an unrealized net gain of $746,498.
2
    2023 change in fair value includes a realized net gain of $2,579,142 and an unrealized net loss of $(2,069,650).




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                                             203
                                    ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                              ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT              67
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 7 INVESTMENT AND MEMBER SERVICE EXPENSES

a) Investment expenses
      ($ Thousands)                                                            2024                    2023
      ATRF
         Investment management and oversight                           $               4,531   $                4,771
             1
      AIMCo
          Investment Management Fees                                               137,213                    136,243
          Investment Performance Fees                                               99,951                     41,250
      Total AIMCo fees                                                             237,164                    177,493
      Total investment expenses                                        $           241,695     $              182,264


   1
       AIMCo charges investment expenses to ATRF on a cost-recovery basis. Amounts recovered include external administration costs,
       employee salaries, incentive and performance-related benefits, and overhead costs.

b) Member service expenses

      ($ Thousands)                                                            2024                    2023
      ATRF internal benefit administration and oversight               $              13,580   $               12,622

   Member service expenses include ATRF's direct costs for pension services such as salaries and benefits of pension
   team members, plan administration, actuarial services, and shared services such as technology, governance, and
   oversight costs. It also includes indirect costs for operations such as premises and other corporate operations.

c) ATRF operating expenses

      ($ Thousands)                                                            2024                    2023
      Salaries and benefits                                            $              11,549   $               11,107
      Premises and operations                                                          3,869                    3,775
      Profesional services                                                             2,226                    2,054
      Board and committees                                                               467                      457
      Total ATRF operating expenses                                    $              18,111   $               17,393




204                                                                                       Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                   ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

68        ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                         OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 8 CONTRIBUTIONS


($ Thousands)                                              2024             2023
Teachers
     Current service                                  $      346,655    $     335,206
     Current service additional 10% of COLA                   14,597           14,115
     Past service                                              4,750             3,234
     Deficiency                                               24,458           23,653
                                                             390,460          376,208
The Province
     Current service                                         349,337          333,466
     Past service                                              1,944            1,516
     Deficiency                                               23,364           22,303
                                                             374,645          357,285
Private School Boards
     Current service                                           3,244             3,037
     Deficiency                                                     5                5
                                                               3,249             3,042
Transfers from other plans                                    10,360             7,928
                                                      $      778,714    $     744,463


NOTE 9 BENEFITS PAID


($ Thousands)                                              2024             2023
Pension benefits                                      $      721,486    $     663,988
Termination benefits                                          88,770           77,852
Transfers to other plans                                      18,112           15,850
                                                      $      828,368    $     757,690

During the year $503 million (2023: $497 million) was received from the Province and was distributed as benefits paid
relating to the pre-1992 period.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025 TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             ALBERTA                                                                                   205

                                                                                            ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT     69
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 10 INVESTMENT RISK MANAGEMENT


      The Plans’ actuarial liabilities are primarily affected by the long-term real rate of return expected to be earned on
      investments. To earn the best possible return at an acceptable level of risk, the SIP&G contains an asset mix with
      policy ranges designed to deliver the expected long-term rate of return. The Board reviews and approves the SIP&G
      at least once every fiscal year.

      The Plans are exposed to financial risks associated with the underlying securities held in the pools created and
      managed by AIMCo. These financial risks include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Market risk comprises
      currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk. Credit risk is a probable risk of loss resulting from the borrower failing to
      repay a loan or meet contractual obligations. Liquidity risk is the risk the Plan will not be able to meet its obligations
      as they fall due. Another type of liquidity risk affecting the Plans’ fund is the risk that, for a certain period of time, a
      given financial asset cannot be traded quickly enough without impacting its market price.

a) Market risk

      Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an investment asset or investment liability will
      fluctuate because of changes in market factors such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equity and commodity
      prices. Market risk is mitigated through diversification of investments across asset types, geography and time
      horizons. Market risk is comprised of the following:

      i) CURRENCY RISK

      Currency risk is the risk that the value of foreign investments will be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange
      rates for Canadian dollars. The Plans are exposed to currency risk through holdings of investment assets or liabilities
      in foreign currencies. The relative Canadian value or future cash flows of investments denominated in foreign
      currencies will change with a change in the price of the Canadian dollar against other currencies.


      Foreign investments in absolute return, real estate and infrastructure are hedged with the aim of minimizing foreign
      currency exposure. ATRF permits AIMCo to hedge foreign currency holdings to limit the Plans’ foreign currency
      exposure.




206                               ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                                                        Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025

 70       ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                                     OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 10 INVESTMENT RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)


   The Plans’ foreign currency exposure is as follows:

   ($ Thousands)                                    2024                                                    2023
                              Foreign                         Net Foreign                Foreign                     Net Foreign
                                               Currency                     % of                       Currency                    % of
   Currency                  Currency                          Currency                 Currency                      Currency
                                              Derivatives                   Total                     Derivatives                  Total
                             Exposure                          Exposure                 Exposure                      Exposure

   United States Dollar     $ 11,204,264      $ (5,535,009) $   5,669,255   65 %    $    9,685,102   $ (4,754,082) $   4,931,020   60 %
   Euro                        2,553,149        (1,235,105)     1,318,044   15           2,086,100       (834,604)     1,251,496   15
   Hong Kong Dollar                 270,231         (1,688)       268,543     3           337,476            (115)       337,361     4
   Japanese Yen                     228,201        14,828         243,029     3           168,760          43,086        211,846     3
   British Pound Sterling           526,034       (332,085)       193,949     2           570,013        (206,810)       363,203     4
   Taiwan Dollar                    174,781            -          174,781     2           193,018              -         193,018     2
   Other                       1,268,848          (404,308)       864,540   10           1,113,827       (155,060)       958,767   12
                            $ 16,225,508      $ (7,493,367) $   8,732,141   100 %   $ 14,154,296     $ (5,907,585) $   8,246,711   100 %


   The net foreign currency exposure of its underlying investments represents 36% (2023: 36%) of the Plans’ net
   investments.

   After considering the effect of currency hedges, a 5% increase/decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar against all
   currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in an approximate decrease/increase in the value of net
   foreign investments of $437 million as at August 31, 2024 (2023: $412 million).

   ii) INTEREST RATE RISK

   Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an investment will fluctuate as a result of changes
   in market interest rates. The Plans are exposed to interest rate risk through fixed-rate and floating-rate securities.
   There are also certain alternative investments which may have interest rate components exposing them to interest
   rate risk. Changes in interest rates affect fair values of fixed-rate securities and the cash flows of floating-rate
   securities. Increases in interest rates will generally decrease the fair value of fixed-rate securities and increase cash
   flow from floating-rate notes.

   Interest rate risk sensitivity
   The interest rate sensitive assets represent 20% (2023: 21%) of the Plans’ net investments.




Education | Annual Report 2024ALBERTA
                               – 2025 TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                         207

                                                                                                       ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT       71
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statements
August 31, 2024



NOTE 10 INVESTMENT RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

   The following table presents the approximate increase/decrease in market value for the Plans’ interest rate sensitive
   investments, assuming a parallel 1% decrease/increase in interest rates, with all other variables held constant:

      ($ Thousands)                           2024                                               2023
                                              Change in            Market                         Change in    Market
      Term to Maturity          Market Value                               Market Value
                                             Market Value         Value %                       Market Value Value
                                                                                                              Value%%of
      Less than 1 year          $   485,545 $       1,260             10 % $   150,445          $        595       3%
      1-3 years                     314,034         4,919              6       776,736                12,888      16
      3-5 years                       149,944            3,007          3           467,041           16,051          10
      5-10 years                      172,794            7,695          4           709,863           39,784          15
      Greater than 10 years         3,840,447         511,309          77         2,667,579          360,305          56
                                $ 4,962,764      $    528,190         100 % $ 4,771,664         $    429,623        100 %

   iii) EQUITY PRICE RISK

   Equity price risk is the risk that the fair value of an investment will fluctuate as a result of changes in equity market
   prices (other than those arising from interest-rate risk or currency risk), whether those changes are caused by factors
   specific to the individual investment or factors affecting all securities traded in the market.

   Equity price risk is mitigated through the use of geographic, sector and entity specific analyses, and strategies such as
   diversification and derivative instruments to mitigate the overall impact of price risk.

   A 10% increase/decrease in the value of the overall public equity market, with all other variables held constant, would
   result in an approximate increase/decrease in the value of public-market exposure of $673 million (2023: $639
   million).

b) Credit risk

   Credit risk is the potential of loss should a counterparty fail to meet its contractual obligations, or a reduction in the
   value of assets due to deteriorated credit quality of the counterparty, guarantor or the collateral supporting the credit
   exposure. The Plans are exposed to credit risk through investment in fixed income investments, securities lending, and
   balances receivable from sponsors and counterparties.

   To mitigate this risk, AIMCo has set investment restrictions to limit the credit exposure to security issuers. Short-term
   investments require a rating of “R-1” or equivalent. Credit exposure to any single counterparty is limited to maximum
   amounts and minimum ratings as specified in the relevant product descriptions.




208                                                                                         Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                               ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

72       ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                                        OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statement
August 31, 2024



NOTE 10 INVESTMENT RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

   As at August 31, 2024, fixed-income investments exposed to credit risk, by credit rating, are as follows:

                                                                 2024                                     2023
    ($ Thousands)                                       Market Value         % of Total          Market Value     % of Total

    Investment grade (AAA to BBB-)                  $         4,297,364            87 %        $    4,676,357            98 %
    Speculative grade (BB+ or lower)                             98,807             2                  25,002             1
    Unrated1                                                    566,593            11                  70,305             1
                                                    $         4,962,764            100 %       $    4,771,664            100 %

   1
       Includes private debt investments and holdings for which credit rating is not assigned.

   As at August 31, 2024, the Plans have significant concentration of credit risk within fixed-income investments with the
   following issuers:

                                                                 2024                                     2023
    ($ Thousands)                                       Market Value         % of Total          Market Value     % of Total
    Province of Ontario                             $         1,084,400             22 %       $     842,301             18 %
    Province of Quebec                                            862,264           17               628,314             13
    Government of Canada                                          731,535           15               807,018             17

   The Plans are also exposed to risk through over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative transactions, arising from a default or
   insolvency of a counterparty.

   The Plans have exposure to OTC derivatives as follows:

    ($ Thousands)                                                       2024                          2023
    Forwards                                                  $                 21,256     $                    30,774
    Options                                                                         90                           1,161
                                                              $                 21,346     $                    31,935

c) Liquidity risk

   Liquidity risk is the risk of the Plans being unable to generate sufficient cash in a timely and cost-effective manner to
   meet commitments and expenses as they become due. Consideration is given to the Plans’ financial liabilities, which
   include investment-related liabilities (Note 3), accrued pension obligations (Note 5), and contracts that give rise to
   commitments for future payments (Note 11).

   Liquidity requirements of the Plans are met through income generated from investments, employee and employer
   contributions, and by holding publicly traded liquid assets in active markets that are easily sold and converted to cash.
   ATRF also maintains cash holdings with major Canadian Financial Institutions to manage short-term corporate
   liquidity needs.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                               209
                                    ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                           ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT   73
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statement
August 31, 2024



NOTE 10 INVESTMENT RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

      The investment-related liabilities are due within one year as follows:

      ($ Thousands)                                      2024                  2023
      Due to brokers                               $         12,629   $            20,290
      Derivative instruments                                  9,473                34,427
      Bonds repurchase agreements                             3,159                77,230
                                                   $         25,261   $           131,947

      The following table presents the liquid investment assets at the year ended August 31:

      ($ Thousands)                                     2024                   2023
      Investment cash                             $        292,215    $           596,301
      Money-market securities                                8,746                 35,443
      Investment related assets                             24,211                 79,773
      Bonds and debentures                               4,012,592              4,200,782
      Public equity & REITs                              6,772,023              6,606,842
                                                  $    11,109,787     $        11,519,141

      ATRF aims to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet the Plans’ obligations while maintaining the agility for suitable
      investment opportunities and/or rebalancing the investment portfolios to target levels.




NOTE 11 COMMITMENTS

The Plans have committed to fund certain private investments over the next several years. These commitments are
generally payable on demand based on the funding needs of the investment subject to the terms and conditions of each
commitment. As at August 31, 2024, the sum of these commitments equalled $855 million (2023: $1,090 million).




210                                                                                     Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
                                  ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

74        ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                                                         OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION




NOTES
Notes to TO
         the THE FINANCIAL
             Financial        STATEMENTS
                       Statement
August 31, 2024



NOTE 12 NET INVESTMENT RETURNS, RELATED BENCHMARK RETURNS AND THE DISCOUNT RATE

Net investment returns, related benchmark returns and the discount rate for the Plans for the years ended August 31 are
as follows:


                                               2024         2023
Net Investment Return                         6.9%          4.4%
Benchmark Return                              12.3%         8.5%
Discount Rate                                  6.5%         6.5%


Investment return has been calculated using a time-weighted rate of return methodology in accordance with industry
standard methods. Net investment return is net of investment costs and excludes plan member service costs of $13.6
million or 0.06% (2023: $12.6 million or 0.06%).

The Plans’ benchmark return is a composite benchmark produced by aggregating returns from each policy asset class
benchmark, using the Plans’ asset mix policy weights.

The discount rate is the long term expected rate of return on invested assets needed to achieve the Plans fully funded
status.




NOTE 13 RECLASSIFICATION

Certain prior year figures have been reclassified for current year’s presentation.




NOTE 14 APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

These financial statements were approved by the ATRF Board on Thursday, December 12, 2024.




Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025                                                                                    211
                               ALBERTA TEACHERS’ RETIREMENT FUND | 2024 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            ATRF 2024 ANNUAL REPORT       75
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Annual Report Extracts and Other Statutory Reports

Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act
Section 32 of the Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblower Protection) Act reads:
32 (1) Every chief officer must prepare a report annually on all disclosures that have been made to the
       designated officer of the department, public entity or office of the Legislature for which the chief
       officer is responsible.
      (2) The report under subsection (1) must include the following information:
         (a) the number of disclosures received by the designated officer, the number of disclosures acted on
             and the number of disclosures not acted on by the designated officer;
         (b) the number of investigations commenced by the designated officer as a result of disclosures;
         (c) in the case of an investigation that results in a finding of wrongdoing, a description of the
             wrongdoing and any recommendations made or corrective measures taken in relation to the
             wrongdoing or the reasons why no corrective measure was taken.
      (3) The report under subsection (1) must be included in the annual report of the department, public
          entity or office of the Legislature if the annual report is made publicly available.
There were no disclosures of wrongdoing filed with my office, for your department, between April 1, 2024
and March 31, 2025.




212                                                                              Education | Annual Report 2024 – 2025
