High school completion | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Disability Income Assistance
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Income Support
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
October 4, 2026
Alberta strengthens tourism ties with Mexico
October 3, 2026
Promoting Alberta's cultural industries abroad
October 2, 2026
Public alert for potential hepatitis A exposure
October 2, 2026
Investing in community-led cultural initiatives
October 2, 2026
Strengthening global justice partnerships
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Education and training
Finishing high school and academic upgrading
High school completion
Part of
Finishing high school and academic upgrading
High school completion
The Alberta government continues to move on initiatives to help ensure success for high school students and teachers.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Finishing high school and academic upgrading
Academic upgrading if you are 20 or older
Equivalency diploma options
General Educational Development
Graduation requirements, credentials and credits
Academic upgrading if you are 19 or younger
High school completion
Overview
Alberta’s future prosperity rests on our ability to support a well-educated workforce that is responsive to change. Among the key priorities of the provincial education system is to ensure all of our students are successful – both in school, work and life.
Outcomes
High School programming in Alberta focuses on 3 outcomes:
engaged students
high levels of achievement
quality teaching
Ensuring a focus on student-centred learning happens when high schools put in place a number of key foundational principles.
Foundational principles
All foundational principles are interconnected. To meet the needs of their school communities high schools may need to focus on one or more.
Mastery learning
Mastery learning is an instructional strategy that results in a comprehensive grasp of measurable outcomes.
Key understandings include the following:
schools that support mastery learning set high expectations and create successful learning
environments for their students
teachers design, pace and scaffold instruction for student success
continuous learning opportunities are available
teachers use regular formative assessment to monitor progress and provide ongoing feedback
teachers use both universal and targeted instructional strategies
Rigour and relevance
Rigor and relevance challenges students to apply what they have learned to solving complex real world problems. Students have opportunities to link disciplinary concepts and understandings to authentic situations when this is applied.
Key understandings include the following:
teaching materials and assessment strategies are aligned with the curriculum’s rigour and relevance
assignments focus on the application of concepts and skills in real-world contexts
requires students to apply their knowledge and learning to career aspirations
teachers support and encourage students to meet the high standards set for them
teachers design instruction to provide students with opportunities to strengthen and develop collaboration, evaluation, and higher order thinking skills
teachers ensure that instruction and assessment are aligned
Personalization
Personalization differentiates instruction to meet the diverse needs and interests of all students.
Key understandings include the following:
teachers develop an in depth understanding of their students’ strengths, areas of growth, and interests
ongoing communication and planning with stakeholders results in increased student engagement
strategies focus on building relationships and rapport
options for diverse career learning paths including non-traditional learning paths
portfolios including e-folios, allow students to showcase their work
cross curricular teaching and learning is encouraged
schools design choices that facilitate relevant community learning opportunities
Flexible learning environments
Flexible learning environments support the idea that learning occurs in a variety of settings both within and beyond the walls of the classroom.
Key understandings include the following:
learning is student-centred
students are responsible and accountable for their learning
new technologies facilitate online learning and one-on-one time with a teacher
teachers are empowered to decide how best to structure time to facilitate learning for students
students have more control over the where, when, and what they learn
students are more engaged and by becoming more engaged, they transform their experiences into their education
shifts in designing spaces within the school and classroom that support regular opportunities for student to student collaboration
student agency, ownership, and choice can enhance success
Educator roles and professional development
Educator roles and professional development provides ongoing support for the role of the teacher as guide, coach, and career mentor.
Key understandings include the following:
school leaders and structures support and sustain teacher collaboration
teacher efficacy is supported through ongoing collaboration and shared decision making
school leaders and teachers collect and use data to inform and improve teaching practice
teachers work collectively to plan, instruct, and assess curricular outcomes
Meaningful relationships
Teachers and students develop relationships built on trust and healthy interaction.
Key understandings include the following:
students’ motivation to learn is impacted positively by having a caring and supportive relationship with teachers
schools often provide structures such as teacher advisors, homerooms, and learning cohorts
to support positive student-teacher relationships
positive student-teacher relationships can have a significant effect on the peer acceptance of students
students see teachers as mentors
students are supported in achieving excellence and high standards
positive student-teacher relationships promote a sense of belonging and encourage students to participate cooperatively
Home and community involvement
Positive home partnerships build learning opportunity outside the classroom and allow stakeholders to discuss issues and solutions.
Key understandings include the following:
school wide strategies are in place to engage the home and community
parents are actively involved in the learning and understand its intent, importance, and value
students have opportunities to learn in the community
business, industry and other community stakeholders are invited to be partners in education happening at school
Assessment
Assessing student learning involves four components including setting clear expectations for all learners, using formative assessments to provide students with timely feedback to move learning forward, using summative assessments to analyze performance in relation to learning outcomes, and reporting assessment of learning.
Key understandings include the following:
clear expectations about high standards foster a culture of continuous improvement
a variety of assessments are used including demonstrations of learning, applied projects, performance assessments, and portfolios
formative assessment is integral to the learning process and is used to guide teachers in adjusting instruction, promoting learning, and assessing student mastery
formative feedback promotes reflection and increases student engagement and ownership in the learning process
summative assessments provide evidence for teachers to analyze performance in relation to learner outcomes
students are given chances to replace earlier attempts and have opportunities to make up missed assignments
schools and school authorities develop fair, accurate, and flexible grading policies and practices
teachers exercise their professional judgment when determining final course marks
professional learning assists teachers in understanding how to manage and use the data they gather
Welcoming, caring, respectful and safe learning environment
Fostering diversity as well as respect supports an inclusive school culture where students feel cared for and connected to the community. It contributes to and sustains a healthy learning environment.
Key understandings include the following:
student voice is valued, listened to, and acted upon
high expectations for all students
students demonstrate respectful speech and actions
students and staff are mindful of others
shared responsibility is expected
schools provide opportunities for greater student, parental, and community involvement
students are encouraged to contribute to a positive school culture
diversity is celebrated
Successful high schools
Schools have implemented strategies and foundational practices aimed at transforming the high school experience for students and teachers through changes to one or more of these areas.
School structure
Organization that allows learning to occur under a variety of circumstances and conditions including flexible schedules, year-round calendars, modified timetables and varied instructional settings.
School culture
Student voice, student engagement, welcoming, caring and respectful learning environments that respect the shared values and beliefs of all stakeholders.
School pedagogy
Includes current and comprehensive planning, instruction and assessment practices that meet the needs of all learners.
School leadership
Has a key role in leading instructional learning, informing school policies and fostering collaboration and effective relationships with community partners.
HSC Strategic Framework
To assist Alberta school authorities in successfully increasing their high school completion rates, Alberta Education designed the High School Completion (HSC) Strategic Framework around 5 areas for action:
HSC Strategic Framework
To assist Alberta school authorities in successfully increasing their high school completion rates, Alberta Education designed the High School Completion (HSC) Strategic Framework around five areas for action:
Tracking progress
Monitoring student, school, and school authority data is at the core of the early identification of trends and factors that may contribute to a student not completing high school.
Student engagement
Students are more engaged when they have opportunities for input into their learning and the life of the school.
Successful transitions
Transition planning is multi-faceted and is required for events that result in changes to relationships, routines, and expectations or roles.
Partnerships
Collaborative partnerships are an essential component in supporting successful high school completion.
Positive connections
Must be created and maintained between the school staff, student and their family for students to experience success.
Alberta’s High School Completion Strategic Framework addresses the challenges students face in finishing high school and helps ensure all students are given the opportunity to succeed.
Resources
High School Completion Strategic Framework 5 STARting Points
Contact
Connect with Alberta Education for more information about high school programming:
Phone:
780-427-6272
Toll free:
310-0000
before the phone number (in Alberta)
Related
Online learning
Off campus education
Dual credit
Safe and caring schools
Previous
Academic upgrading if you are 19 or younger
Lead ministry:
Education and Childcare
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will
NOT
receive a reply on your feedback. Do
NOT
include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects
.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
					2026
					Government of Alberta
