Provincial Achievement Tests | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Disability Income Assistance
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Income Support
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
October 4, 2026
Alberta strengthens tourism ties with Mexico
October 3, 2026
Promoting Alberta's cultural industries abroad
October 2, 2026
Public alert for potential hepatitis A exposure
October 2, 2026
Investing in community-led cultural initiatives
October 2, 2026
Strengthening global justice partnerships
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Education and training
K to 12 education
K to 12 provincial assessment
Provincial Achievement Tests
English
Français
Part of
K to 12 provincial assessment
Provincial Achievement Tests
Information for educators on Provincial Achievement Tests (PATs) administered to Alberta students in grades 6 and 9.
Skip to On this page
Overview
Provincial Achievement Tests (PATs) are administered annually to all Alberta students in grades 6 and 9.
These standardized tests reflect the essentials all Alberta students are expected to achieve, regardless of school choice or location.
PATs
help:
determine if students are learning what they are expected to learn
report to Albertans how well students have achieved provincial standards at given points in their schooling
assist schools, authorities and the province in monitoring and improving student learning
The tests occur in June for grade 6 curriculum in the following subjects:
English Language Arts and Literature
Français langue première et littérature/French Immersion Language Arts and Literature
Mathematics
Science
Social Studies
PATs are written in grade 9 and Knowledge and Employability (K&E) programs of study in January, and June in:
English Language Arts
Francais/French Language Arts (K&E not offered)
Mathematics
Science
Social Studies
The
General Information Bulletin
helps support school authorities, school administrators and classroom teachers in implementing the Provincial Achievement Testing Program in their authorities and schools.
PAT Schedules for 2027
Significant Dates at a Glance
Provincial Assessment Directive
Digital tests and exams
Alberta Education and Childcare has modernized provincial assessments by transitioning to a digital platform for provincial student assessments, meaning that students write diploma exams and provincial achievement tests in a digital environment rather than pencil and paper. This is supported by
An Act to Remove Politics and Ideology from Classrooms and Amend the Education Act, 2026
(Bill 25), which will come into effect on proclamation, anticipated for September 1, 2026.
The digital format makes PATs more interactive and allows students to demonstrate their learning in ways not possible in a paper-based test. Built-in digital tools and accommodations also make provincial assessments more inclusive by addressing diverse learning needs.
Teachers, parents, and students can
navigate the assessment platform
and access
practice exams
and resources through the platform's
user guides
. Questions and feedback may be directed to
[email protected]
.
Information for school principals
Principals can contact individuals with school-authority access to request access to the digital platform. Alternatively, principals can contact
[email protected]
to request access for their school so they can set up their account and add other administrators and teachers.
Once teachers have been added and set up their account, teachers can administer practice written-response assignments and practice tests. Instructions on using the digital assessment platform can be found in the user guides available on the
help page
.
Local performance targets
Each school board in Alberta sets targets for school and board performance in provincial standardized tests.
Evaluating results in the context of these targets can help school boards identify which areas students need more help in to improve learning.
Tips for setting local targets
Consider past performance on each test.
Focus on a limited number of subjects at a time where performance can improve.
Collaborate with teacher colleagues across different grade levels.
Students’ performance on tests reflects their learning in all years.
Teachers in all grades can contribute to setting targets.
Use school reports on achievement test results to identify which aspects of a subject need attention.
Focus on what supports students need to succeed instead of focusing on problems.
Expect to set different targets in different grades and subjects depending on past results and current priorities.
Collaborate with other schools to identify areas of common strength or weakness.
Keep students and parents informed and report to them on achievement targets and results.
Provincial tests are a useful tool but only one way to see how well a school is performing.
Schools and boards may also choose to set targets for other measures of student achievement according to their local needs.
Targets can also be set for goals that fall outside of student achievement and reflect local priorities and parent and community involvement.
PAT results
Schools
must share
sharing preliminary
PAT
results with parents and guardians
by the end of the school year.
Every fall, Individual Student Profiles (ISPs) are made available to schools on PASI and to parents on myPass. ISPs are kept on the students’ records in accordance with the
Student Record Regulation
.
Interpreting results
Careful examination and interpretation of results help educators identify areas of relative strength and weakness in student achievement.
Teachers and administrators can use this information in planning and delivering relevant and effective instruction.
View the
guidelines for interpreting achievement tests
.
PATs don't replace daily teacher assessments but provide insights to complement ongoing classroom observations and evaluations.
PAT results by school and authority
PAT results are available for each school authority and individual schools.
Search the database
to find 5-year reports for each writing period and participation rates for each school and authority or view the documents below:
Multiyear results (provincial)
Multiyear results (by school authority)
Multiyear results (by school)
2021 to 2025 results by table
2021 to 2025 results by graph
Key educator resources
The information provided is intended primarily to support school authorities, school administrators and classroom teachers in implementing the Provincial Achievement Testing Program in their authorities and schools.
Accommodations and special format forms
Braille order form
Application for Unique Accommodations
Additional forms
Written-response bilingual lined page
Written-response bilingual blank page
Multiplication Chart – 10 x 10
Multiplication Chart – 12 x 12
Blank number lines
Cartesian plane
Graph scrap paper
Toolkit for staff
ISP information sheet
Sample ISP – grade 6
Sample ISP – grade 9
Teacher involvement: Field testing, central marking, item development, test validation
Teacher participation in provincial assessments
Parent guide
Parent guide – grade 6
Parent guide – grade 9
Practice questions
Find practice questions on the new
Digital Assessment Platform
(DAP).
Subject area resources
These resources are developed to support classroom teachers in understanding provincial standards in the form of statistical analyses of selected responses, examples of student work, scoring guides and released materials.
English Language Arts/English Language Arts and Literature
Examples for student writing – grade 6
ELAL 6 Non-fiction exemplars
ELAL 6 Fiction exemplars
Examples for student writing – grade 9
Narrative/Essay Writing 2019
Narrative/Essay Writing 2018
Narrative/Essay Writing 2017
Narrative/Essay Writing 2016
Narrative/Essay Writing 2015
Scoring guides
Grade 6 scoring guide 2025-2026
Grade 9 scoring guide 2025-2026
Released items – grade 9
2018
2016
2014
Subject Bulletins
Subject Bulletin 2025-2026 – grade 6
Subject Bulletin 2025-2026 – grade 9
Knowledge and Employability
K&E Subject Bulletin
Knowledge & Employability Subject Bulletin 2026-2027
K&E examples of students’ writing English Language Arts 9
2019
2013
K&E released items English Language Arts 9
2010 and 2011
Part A Writing
Part B Reading
K&E scoring guide English Language Arts 9
Scoring Guide
K&E released items Mathematics 9
2010 and 2011
2010
K&E released items Science 9
2010
K&E released items Social Studies 9
2010, 2011, and 2013
2010
Mathematics
Released materials grade 9
2019
2015
2013
Subject Bulletins
Subject Bulletin 2025-2026 – grade 6
Subject Bulletin 2025-2026 – grade 9
Science
Released materials – grade 9
Biological Diversity
Electrical Principles and Technologies
Environmental Chemistry
Matter and Chemical Change
Space Exploration
2017
Subject Bulletins
Subject Bulletin 2025-2026 – grade 6
Subject Bulletin 2025-2026
– grade 9
Social Studies
Released materials grade 9
2018
2016
2014
2012
2010
Subject Bulletins
Subject Bulletin 2025-2026 – grade 6
Subject Bulletin 2025-2026 – grade 9
Contact
Connect with Provincial Achievement Tests:
Hours: 8:15 am to 4:30 pm (open Monday to Friday, closed statutory holidays)
Test format, content, confirming standards, marking, and results reporting
Email:
[email protected]
Test security, rules, scheduling, and policy issues
Email:
[email protected]
Next
Diploma exams
Lead ministry:
Education and Childcare
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will
NOT
receive a reply on your feedback. Do
NOT
include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects
.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
					2026
					Government of Alberta
